---
aliases:
- /2020-04-21-2020-04-02-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2020-04-21 15:22:55
title: 2020/04/02 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Roll Call 

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Clint Wilson , Corey Bonnell (SecureTrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback , Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly , Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Patrick Nohe (GlobalSign), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Thanos Vrachnos (SSL.com), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Timo Schmitt (SwissSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes 

### 1. Anti-Trust Statement 

Dimitris read the statement.

### 2. Review of Agenda 

Agenda reviewed; Dean will take minutes.

### 3. Approval of minutes from last teleconference 

Minutes of prior teleconference were approved.

### 4. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update 

Jos said there was no meeting last time. Ballot 26 had passed and is undergoing IPR review.

### 5. Code Signing Working Group update 

Dean said the group combined the EV and BR guidelines into a single document and had assigned each section to a member for a sanity check to insure all migrations were captured and changes were kept to a minimal set of guidelines. The group will review each section with the section owner on the next call. Intention is to pass this document and then address the “parking lot” issues in a subsequent update.

### 6. New S/MIME Working Group charter 

Tim said that Ryan had provided comments to the ballot which are being worked on in github. Comments are being incorporated into a draft ballot and will be put on the public list for further comment.

### 7. Any other business 

Dean mentioned that the officers are meeting on Tuesday to make a recommendation on the June F2F meeting.

### 8. Next call 

April 16, 2020 at 11:30am ET

### 9. Adjourn