---
aliases:
- /2020/03/20/2020-03-05-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2020-03-20 14:19:05
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2020-03-05 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Adam Clark (Visa), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (SecureTrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Curt Spann (Apple), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Eva Vansteenberge (GlobalSign), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Sissel Hoel (Buypass AS), Timo Schmitt (SwissSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes

### 1. Roll Call

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

Accepted without changes.

### 4. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update

No update.

### 5. Code Signing Working Group update

The WG changed their plans for the summit. The summit will not take place with physical presence due to travel restrictions and the virus. They will try to have a web conference for 3-4 hours. Bruce will prepare a framework to combine the two documents. They still expect to make significant progress and plan for another f2f in the future. It will be an “online summit”.

### 6. New S/MIME WG Charter

Clint mentioned that he has exchanged a couple of emails with Tim and they are discussing some changes. Tim and Clint are working on a draft that includes an alternative language for the ending WG membership section. This section was updated with proposed changes that met the concerns from Apple’s legal team. Rather than expressing concerns, Apple also proposed alternative text that would address the concerns. Clint is open to further feedback for these proposals. He also sent these draft proposals to other individuals of the Forum for review.

Clint is expecting to get some feedback from Tim before sending another email to the Forum.

Dimitris mentioned that the minutes from the last F2F regarding this topic are quite detailed and useful for making progress. If he doesn’t expect big changes from Tim, he recommended sending the latest draft version to the Forum’s public list and continue the discussion there.

Clint will check the F2F recording to capture the discussions more accurately. He will also send the draft they have been working on to the public list.

### 7. Action items from previous meetings

Dimitris updated the wiki page ([https://wiki.cabforum.org/meeting_action_items][1]) that includes action items from previous meetings. Members are encouraged to review this page for issues that are either missing or need to be updated or removed.

### 8. Preparation for the next update to Bylaws

Dimitris went over the latest proposed changes as documented in [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i-stbEb7de6yL6tGg2NWqGnCCgBg9Y8P][2].

He mentioned that this ballot will allow a minimum discussion period of 14 days, giving time for extended review by some Member’s legal teams.

Ryan will endorse provided they do a thorough review. Mike will also endorse for Microsoft.

### 9. Any Other Business

In relation to the upcoming F2F meeting in Minneapolis, Dean mentioned that we’ll be monitoring the situation with the virus outbreak globally and keep everyone posted for any changes. As we stand, the meeting is scheduled for June.

### 10. Next call

March 19, 2020 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned

[1]: https://wiki.cabforum.org/meeting_action_items
[2]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i-stbEb7de6yL6tGg2NWqGnCCgBg9Y8P