---
aliases:
- /2020-08-10-2020-07-23-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2020-08-10 17:01:32
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2020-07-23 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris McMillan (Visa), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (SecureTrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Huo Haitao (Halton) (360 Browser), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Johny Reading (GoDaddy), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Michelle Coon (OATI), Michol Murray (GoDaddy), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (Godaddy), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Thanos Vrachnos (SSL.com), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Travis Graham (GoDaddy), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes 

### 1. Roll Call 

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement 

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda 

No changes to the agenda were noted.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference 

No objections to approval of minutes.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update 

Nobody who attended the last Infrastructure Subcommittee meeting was on this call, thus no update.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update 

Dean: Out of the previous week’s meeting there is a Ballot in Voting Period currently, to approve the combination of the EV Guidelines and the non-EV Code Signing Guidelines into one document. Voting started earlier this week and is now in progress, all members of the WG are hereby urged to vote sooner rather than later.

The WG has a TODO list of items that the WG is planning to change in a future update to the document and is proceeding with working on these items. We expect a presentation from Microsoft about high risk requests in a future meeting.

The WG also transitioned over to the new WebEx without problems.

### 7. S/MIME Working Group update 

Stephen: The S/MIME WG’s charter requires the WG to be bootstrapped, so you may recall a call for declarations of interest to participate. After the first meeting of the WG yesterday, July 22, we finalized the WG with 19 Certificate Issuers, 2 Certificate Consumers, 4 Associate Members and 3 Interested Parties. I was confirmed as Chair of the Group, and we deferred electing a Vice Chair for a week or two, in order to allow people to consider volunteering. The Group will be meeting again on August 5, at 11:00 EST, maintaining a two week rythm. Currently there is a call open for members who may be aware of related standards that might have a bearing on the groups work, such as the GMail certificate policy, and standards that exist from ETSI. The group is still open for additional members, there are some prospect members. The charter is quite specific as to the objectives and deliverables of the group. The group will start with some topics that may be familiar to other CA/B Forum documents, such as “how one goes about validating email control” and certificate profiles. Anyone interested please reach out, special thanks to the Infrastructure Subcommittee.

Robin: We missed the initial call to join the S/MIME WG, who do we mail to join?
Stephen: That would be to me, or to the questions email list.

Dimitris: We have established a management list for the WG, and there is of course a public list, similiar to our other Working Groups. Anybody outside the forum can join the public list and access its archives.

### 8. Any Other Business 

Dimitris: I would like to mention that elections are coming up, I am working with Dean and Wayne on some informative mails to be sent on 1st week of August. The Chair nominations will start at August 17. You might want to start thinking about this process, we will need a Chair and a Vice-Char for every working group but the S/MIME working group which was just created. The whole process is documented on the Wiki, “Officer Elections”. Feel free to reach out to me or the other officers for questions related to the duties, or f.x. for the time required to fill a certain role.

Daniela: What was decided for the next F2F?
Dimitris: It was decided to go virtual.
Daniela: So for signup, just sign up on the Wiki?
Dimitris: That is very soon, we’re not really

Dean: We developed the ground rules for the meeting but haven’t send them out yet because everyone would just forget about them, I plan to send them out just a few weeks before the meeting, does that seem reasonable?

Dimitris: I have already posted them on the wiki… First I would please like everybody to register for the meeting. Right now the Ground Rules are a bit of in draft status, we will get them more solid the closer we get to the meeting, any proposals for changes or additions are very much welcome. We will send a reminder when we get closer to the meeting.

Still have to do some demos and tryouts with Josh to figure out the best setup and configs for this large meeting.

### 9. Next call 

The next call will take place on August 6, 2020 at 11:30am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned