---
aliases:
- /2020-08-24-2020-08-06-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2020-08-24 15:58:28
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2020-08-06 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

**Attendees (in alphabetical order)**

Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Chris McMillan (Visa), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (SecureTrust), Chris Kemmerer ([SSL.com](http://ssl.com/)), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Johny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mayur Manchanda (Visa), Michael Guenther (SwissSign), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (Godaddy), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority)

## Minutes 

Dimitris is on vacation, so Dean led the call.

### 1. Roll Call 

The Roll Call was taken.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement 

The Antitrust Statement was read by Ben WIlson.

### 3. Review Agenda 

No changes to the agenda were noted. It was noted that Neil Dunbar volunteered to take minutes for the next SCWG and Forum teleconference.

### 4. Approval of minutes from last teleconference 

Accepted without objections.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee Update 

Jos Purvis provided an update. There was no meeting this past week. Jos reported they are working on a password repository for access to the infrastructure, listserv, etc. They are also discussing separating the GitHub repository by documents. This will help as we continue to add working groups.

Several groups have asked for a GitHub “refresher”. Jos volunteered to conduct a demo and explain the procedures in a 1 hour class. Contact Jos if interested.

The group is soliciting feedback on the new wiki, now that we are 1 year into it.

Dean asked if the group could look at making it easy to update members registries and mailing lists as the current process is cumbersome for the volunteers to manage. Jos said once the mailing system is migrated to AWS, then they can look at making this happen. Ryan said this was discussed on other calls and confirmed that it is an issue.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group Update 

Dean gave the report. The combined EV and Baseline document ballot (CSCWG-2) passed and is in a 30 day IPR review. In the meantime, the group is reviewing the “parking lot list” and is preparing to make any corrections/changes necessary for a future ballot.

### 7. S/MIME Working Group Update 

Stephen Davidson provided the update. The first real meeting was held yesterday (since the initial kickoff). New members were voted in: iTrusChina, SSC and Chungwa Telecom as Certificate Issuers and Teletrust as an Interested Party. The overall approach was laid out and the decision was made to begin with Certificate Profiles. Examples are being gathered to see what work has been done in various standards and other companies. The next meeting is August 19th.

### 8. Any Other Business 

Dean stated that he had some folks look at the CA/B Forum documents to check for language that should be updated given the movement in the technology industry to deprecate certain words like master/slave, whitelist/blacklist, etc. The review found only 3 places in the BRs, EV Guidelines and Code Signing guidelines that should be updated. He will send a note to the list with the suggested corrections.

### 9. Next call 

The next call will take place on August 20, 2020 at 11:00am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned