---
aliases:
- /2020/01/26/2020-01-09-minutes-of-the-ca-b-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2020-01-26 14:38:03
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2020-01-09 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Anna Weinberg (Apple), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (SecureTrust), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kirk Hall (Entrust), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Patrick Nohe (GlobalSign), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Somer Shively (Cisco), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Timo Schmitt (SwissSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority)

## Minutes

### 1. Roll Call, assign minute-taker

The Chair took attendance. Dean will take minutes

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

Accepted without change.

### 4. Approval of minutes from last teleconference

Approved without objections.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update

Jos gave the report:

- A short meeting was held before the break.
- Discussed process for creating new ballot PRs
- Looking at tools or processes for better (self) member management. Discussing best tools to use
- Will push pandoc ballot into review period next week so people can look at it

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update

Dean gave the update:

Working on dates to have a face-to-face code signing summit, hosted at Microsoft in February. The plan is to work cooperatively on merging the EV and base code signing guidelines.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter

Tim H gave the update:

Feedback from Wayne will be addressed and has 2 endorsers. Once that is done, will push it out.

### 8. Any Other Business

- Dean – Feb meeting hosted by Disig in Britislava, the WIKI has travel information posted. Approximately 50 people attending so far
- Summer F2F meeting will be week of June 9-11, in Minnesota, wiki page up but not yet with info. Michelle indicated that it may be held at their facility near the airport
- Doug – Oct 20-22, location selected – need a headcount for hotels by end of March. Doug will send out more info

### 12. Next call

January 23, 2020 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned