---
aliases:
- /2015-03-19-2015-03-19-minutes/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2015-03-19 02:28:08
tags:
- Minutes
title: 2015-03-19 Minutes
type: post
---

**Minutes of March 19th CA/B Forum Meeting**

Attendees: Dean Coclin (Symantec), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Tim Shirley (Trustwave), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Patrick Tronnier (OATI),  Kirk Hall (Trend Micro), Ben Wilson (DigiCert), Robin Alden (Comodo), Mads Henriksveen (BuyPass), Billy VanCannon (Trustwave), Tim Hollebeek (Trustwave), Atilla Biler (TurkTrust), Volkan Nergiz (TurkTrust), Eddy Nigg (Startcom), Jeremy Rowley (DigiCert), Atsushi Inaba (GlobalSign), Wayne Thayer (GoDaddy), Burak Kalkan (TurkTrust), Tyrone Welsh (Trustis), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Mat Caughron (Apple).

Antitrust Statement was read.

1. Minutes of March 5th meeting were approved. Ben to post to website
1. Ballot Status: Pre-Ballot 146 (conversion of BRs): Ben to revise this as a regular ballot soon.

Jeremy said the domain validation proposal is not ready for a ballot yet, it’s still being discussed. He is looking for comments.

Doug said he is working on a revision to Ballot 148 (issuer field correction) which will reset the clock on this ballot.

4. EV Wildcards and 3 year EV certs: A lengthy discussion was held during the F2F meeting. Jeremy said he would either like to lower the validity of all certs to 27 months (which he felt was a better practice) or extend the EV cert validity to 3 years.  Kirk said he could support either way. Eddy said the same and would prefer EV for 3 years. Dean said we should hear what customers have to say. Eddy said the CA should do a risk assessment first. Jeremy said this would affect the public more than it affects CAs and will post something on the public list for feedback. With regard to EV Wildcard, Jeremy said he is in favor of EV Wildcards since this seems to be one of the barriers of adopting EV and doesn’t see much risk to doing this. Eddy suggested that we have this discussion on the mailing list to keep track of the comments.
1. Dean asked for the minute takers from the F2F meeting to finish updating their minutes and post them to the wiki. They were almost all completed.
1. Validation Working Group: No update
1. Code Signing update: No update
1. Policy Review WG: Ballot coming out soon.
1. Info Sharing WG: Meeting scheduled for Friday morning.
1. Any other business: Zurich meeting: Dean asked everyone to respond to the email asking for headcount so reservations can be made. Also, a response to the email about a possible meeting at Netcraft the weekend before was sent out and Dean is looking for interested parties for that.
1. Next meeting will be April 2nd.

Dean Coclin
CA/B Forum Chair