---
aliases:
- /2019-10-07-2019-09-19-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-10-07 19:16:27
title: 2019-09-19 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) {.wp-block-heading}

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Curt Spann (Apple), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Devon O’Brien (Google), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes

{.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call

{.wp-block-heading}

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

{.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

No changes to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference {.wp-block-heading}

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update

{.wp-block-heading}

Tim provided the update. Stephan from GLEIF was invited to participate on the subcommittee call to discuss about the inclusion of LEIs in Certificates. The discussion was not concluded within the hour of the call but there was a lot of progress made and may have to invite him back on a future call. He mentioned that Ryan posted the minutes and Kirk suggested some changes but there was a disagreement about some points. Tim listened to the recording and reviewed the minutes. His personal opinion was that the discussion was mostly captured in the minutes posted by Ryan, almost as a transcript which included a lot of details. Kirk proposed some important edits to the minutes which, from Tim’s quick review, appear to be accurate. He would hope people can continue that discussion and come to a conclusion about what the minutes are without him having to take any additional actions. It was a good discussion and a lot of background information was provided about how LEIs came to be. Ryan also raised some concerns about their inclusion in Certificates. As an additional comment, Tim said that it would be useful if Ryan could summarize his concerns about the use of LEI in EV Certificates and post them to the list, so that other people can address them. If there is serious ecosystem harm with this proposal, we need to discuss it so we can find possible solutions to these concerns.

Wayne mentioned that Ryan is not on the call so Tim should probably communicate this request to the list so that Ryan can see it. Both Tim and Wayne will not be available for the next validation call so Tim will have to find someone else to run the call.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update {.wp-block-heading}

Ben is planning on posting an updated version of ballot SC21.
The subcommittee also worked on restructuring the network security requirements and whether the compensating controls should be something like a concept that we acknowledge in the network security requirements.

### 7. Ballot Status {.wp-block-heading}

No further discussion.

#### Ballots in Discussion Period

{.wp-block-heading}

_None_

#### Ballots in Voting Period {.wp-block-heading}

_None_

#### Ballots in Review Period {.wp-block-heading}

_None_

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration

{.wp-block-heading}

_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)
No additional comments
\_
SC20 Ballot (NSR 2): System Configuration Management\_
No additional comments

_SC21 Ballot (NSR 3): Log Integrity Controls_ (Ben)
No additional comments

### 8. Any Other Business {.wp-block-heading}

No other business.

### 9. Next call {.wp-block-heading}

October 3, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned {.wp-block-heading}