---
aliases:
- /2019/04/04/2019-04-04-minutes-for-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-04-04 17:15:14
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2019-04-04 Minutes for CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daymion Reynolds (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (SecureTrust), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Michael Guenther (SwissSign), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes

{.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call

{.wp-block-heading}

The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

{.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read

### 3. Review Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

Today’s Agenda was approved. Dimitris mentioned that the Code Signing Working Group update slot was added to the agenda similarly to the Infrastructure Working Group. No objections were raised to this permanent addition.

### 4. Pending minutes from F2F 46

The minutes from F2F 46 are almost complete. Dimitris sent a reminder to a few minute-takers that haven’t added the minutes of some sessions and will send another reminder on Friday April 5th.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update

Jos reported that the conversion of the wiki from Moin-Moin to DocuWiki was successful. All items (including tables, attachments) were converted. The only thing missing, is the history of changes to the various wiki pages. The plan is to keep the current wiki available online for a few months on a separate URL for anyone that wants to review history of pages, and then the old wiki will be archived and stored in the new virtual server in case it is needed in the future.

The WG is waiting to find the compute location to migrate the existing mailers and wiki. There is already a documented plan which includes the necessary technical steps that need to take place for this migration.

There was also a discussion around document management and a follow-up to the hackathon we had at the last F2F to handle some pending issues with the automated document creation, namely the cover page, table of contents, and some formatting issues with sections that are numbered 6 levels down. This last issue will probably be addressed by a ballot to just restructure the existing information of section 7.1.2 (no change to the actual requirements) in order to be readable more easily and not 6 levels down.

The WG is still working on how to automatically create red-lined versions.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update

Dean reported that the CSCWG had a meeting in which they ratified some new WG members. There is good participation from Certificate Issuers, Interested Parties and Associate Members but lacking participation of Certificate Consumers. The WG will try to approach other organizations that might be interested in joining the Code Signing Certificate WG, and Dean volunteered to draft a message to be sent to various organizations.

The current code signing guidelines that were developed some years ago, were not adopted by the Forum so they may still have some Intellectual Property issues. The WG decided to bring these guidelines to a ballot to deal with these IPR issues, resolve them and then proceed with any fixes or updates to those documents. Some fixes have already been identified but they will be addressed once the IPR issues are resolved.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter

Dean reported that Tim H. will be working on that Charter after reviewing the minutes of the last F2F.

### 8. Instructions for Hosting a F2F meeting

Dimitris sent a message to the management list with a link to a Google Document that contains instructions and expectations for members that volunteer to host a F2F meeting. There were no objections to the items listed in this document. He will continue to work on this document and include feedback received from members who hosted F2F meetings in the past with a goal to send this document to the members that will host F2F meetings in the future.

### 9. Any Other Business

None.

### 10. Bylaws and existing Charters update

Wayne gave a brief outline of the latest changes introduced in the latest document update.

There are some open questions based on the F2F meeting:
– Forum membership and whether we need to make any adjustments to the currently proposed language. Currently, if a member is not a member of a CWG, this member is automatically removed from the Forum. If members want to propose specific changes, please contact Wayne with specific recommendations.
– The Infrastructure WG should be converted to a Subcommittee of the Forum and the question was whether we want to address this in the Bylaws update ballot or in a separate ballot. There was consensus on the call to create a separate ballot to “terminate” the WG and “charter” a Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee at the Forum level in the same ballot. This would be similar to a “convert” function.
– At the F2F we agreed that we don’t need separate Questions list for each WG but the Questions list coordinator should be in a position to route the question to the appropriate WG. The Bylaws should be updated to reflect this.

The next step is to create a red-line of the Bylaws update. Since this ballot includes several changes, people must review the red-line before it is entered in the discussion period. Dimitris volunteered to review the Bylaws red-line when it is prepared by Wayne. The discussion period will be at least 2 weeks before put to a vote.

### 11. Next call

April 18, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned

### F2F Meeting Schedule:

- 2019: June 11-13, 2019 – Greece (HARICA), October 28-31– Guangzhou (GDCA)
- 2020: Feb-March Bratislava (Disig), June – Minneapolis (OATI), October – Tokyo (GlobalSign)
- 2021: Feb-March Dubai (DarkMatter), June – Poland (Asseco-Certum), October \[Open\]