---
aliases:
- /2019-09-24-2019-09-05-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-09-24 13:39:56
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2019-09-05 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Jeannie Rissman (Network Solutions), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Timo Schmitt (SwissSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes

### 1. Roll Call

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

No changes to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference 

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update

Ryan provided the update. The subcommittee discussed about the LEI ballot objectives. Members from GLEIF will be invited to participate on the next subcommittee call.

The Certificate lifetime ballot was also discussed trying to understand other motivations beyond what Digicert shared. Further reduction in data reuse and what the timing should be if Browsers want to further reduce that, was also part of the discussion.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update 

Ben and Tobi reported that they discussed about ballot SC21. Fotis re-affirmed his endorsement to the updated language and the revised ballot will be sent to the scwg public list.

### 7. Ballot Status 

No further discussion on ballots under consideration

#### Ballots in Discussion Period

_None_

#### Ballots in Voting Period 

\_Ballot SC22: Reduce Certificate Lifetimes \_(Ryan)
No additional comments

#### Ballots in Review Period 

_None_

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration

_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)
No additional comments
\_
SC20 Ballot (NSR 2): System Configuration Management\_
Tobi mentioned that the pain points subgroup shall present a radical new version at the next SC call and wait for feedback.

_SC21 Ballot (NSR 3): Log Integrity Controls_ (Ben)
No additional comments

### 8. Any Other Business 

No other business.

### 9. Next call 

September 19, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned