---
aliases:
- /2019/07/22/2019-06-27-minutes-for-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-07-22 15:30:31
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2019-06-27 Minutes for the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Frank Corday (SecureTrust), Geoff Keating (Apple), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Mariusz Kondratowicz (Opera Software AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes

{.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call

{.wp-block-heading}

The Vice-Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

{.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update

Jos provided the report. The WG had short meetings reviewing the status of tasks after the F2F. He considers cancelling meetings in July and pick up in August. A draft ballot to replace the Infrastructure WG to a Forum Subcommittee is going to be circulated quickly (within the next week or two) within the group first, and then in the main public list for people to comment.

Wayne asked if there is a timeline for moving the mail system. Jos replied that we don’t have a timeline at this time because there are some pending support questions which have not been addressed yet.

Kirk commented that the new wiki is easier to update content than the previous one and liked the transition. Wayne seconded and mentioned that it was a big improvement.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update

Dean was not on the call and there were no update for the CSCWG.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter

Tim H. mentioned that he will try sending out a draft ballot within the next few days.

### 8. Review of F2F 47 Minutes

Wayne reiterated that we would like to get those minutes approved and out to the public soon and kindly asked the minute takers to upload the minutes on the wiki for review.

### 9. Any Other Business

No other business to discuss.

### 10. Next call

{.wp-block-heading}

July 11, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned