---
aliases:
- /2019-11-07-2019-10-31-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-11-07 19:02:28
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2019-10-31 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Xiu Lei (GDCA).

## Minutes



### 1. Roll Call



The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement



The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda



No changes to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference 

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update 

The subcommittee has to choose between two dates for meetings and it is more likely to follow the previous meeting schedule. Discussions related to the Markdown fix ballot should move to the Server Certificate WG public list.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update 

Bruce gave the update and mentioned that they had a short meeting discussing about the ballot to change the date for SHA1 prohibition. The WG also discussed about creating a CA survey in an attempt to set the baseline on where CAs stand for code signing changes to the current requirements. They also discussed about topics for discussion at the F2F. The minutes of the last meeting have not been drafted yet.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter 

Tim mentioned that there is no progress on that topic. Ryan noted that there is an agenda slot assigned to this topic and that we had a path forward where the identity issues would be out of scope and the last thing missing is for someone to finalize that charter.

Mike mentioned that he will introduce a new Microsoft representative that will help work on S/MIME and may assist in this process.

Dimitris recalled that there were two approaches discussed in the past about the charter, one was to completely exclude identity from the charter and another one where identity is included in the charter but prioritized accordingly so that the email validation is completed first and then the identity.

Ryan responded that this was discussed at the last F2F and he recalls having consensus moving forward without identity in the charter.

Dean recalled that there were recommendations and not final decisions about how to proceed with this issue.

In any case, in order to proceed we need a draft charter to be brought for discussion.

### 8. Finalize F2F 48 Agenda



The F2F agenda was approved

### 9. Any Other Business 

Dean contacted OATI that will host in Minnesota. They are checking internally for possible dates. Dean will create a doodle poll after China once he has some candidate dates.

Dimitris informed that Asseco-Certum sent the recommended days for May 2021. Tim, Ryan and others mentioned that some international conferences have not yet published dates for 2021 and we donâ€™t know if there will be any conflicts. Ryan reminded one of the previous recommendations which was to create a wiki page and include the names and dates of important industry conferences so we can try not to overlap with F2F meetings. IETF, RSA meetings, TSP or CA Days were mentioned as industry-important meetings that should not conflict with F2F meetings.

Doug also mentioned about the meeting in Tokio hosted by GlobalSign that they are having difficulties hosting in October and recommended the first week of September. Some members responded that this might be too soon because OATI will host in June and the months of July-August are a bit slow in Forum activity. Doug said Globalsign would discuss internally and get back with more information.

### 10. Next call



November 14, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned