---
aliases:
- /2019/10/31/2019-10-17-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-10-31 16:02:18
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2019-10-17 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Curt Spann (Apple), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Timo Schmitt (SwissSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes

{.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call

{.wp-block-heading}

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

{.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

No changes to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update

Jos provided the update. The final meeting time will be decided and the subcommittee will start meeting two weeks from now. He will send out an invitation for members to participate. Jos is ready to prepare the ballot related to formatting fixes so the markdown can be more “pandoc” friendly. He will pause for the cleanup ballot and SC23. Ryan commented that it will be more work either way. Wayne offered to proceed with the cleanup ballot before SC23 to unblock other ballots. Kirk asked how this would look like if we made the formatting changes and Jos said he could create two PDFs to show the “before” and “after”

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update

No time to discuss this topic.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter

No time to discuss this topic.

### 8. F2F 48 Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

No time to discuss this topic.

### 9. Any Other Business

No time to discuss this topic.

### 10. Next call

{.wp-block-heading}

October 31, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned