---
aliases:
- /2019-02-07-2019-02-07-minutes-of-server-certificate-working-group-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2019-02-07 20:45:38
title: 2019-02-07 Minutes of Server Certificate Working Group Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) {.wp-block-heading}

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Daymion Reynolds (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (SecureTrust), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Leo Grove (SSL.com), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mahmud Khair (SecureTrust), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Sissel Hoel (Buypass AS), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes {.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call {.wp-block-heading}

The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement {.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read

### 3. Review Agenda {.wp-block-heading}

The Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference {.wp-block-heading}

The minutes of January 24, 2019 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site..

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update {.wp-block-heading}

The SC started working on method 6 (website control) and discussed whether to refer directly to the “http-01” method that came out of IETF. They also discussed about the TLS ALPN method (coming closer to a ballot) that will replace the highly ambiguous method 10.

The agenda for the F2F 46 meeting was also discussed with a goal to continue the discussions from the Validation Summit last year, since there are still half of the methods that need to be closely reviewed.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update {.wp-block-heading}

Ben was not on the call and other Network Security Subcommittee members did not have something to report.

### 7. Ballot Status {.wp-block-heading}

#### Ballots in Discussion Period {.wp-block-heading}

None

**Ballots in Voting Period**

_Ballot SC7: Update IP Address Validation Methods_ (Wayne)
Wayne asked members to vote for the ballot as voting ends in one day and asked Members to be aware that they must start logging the validation method they use for validating IP addresses, just like they do for Domain validation. Members should be aware of the implications of this ballot and prepare accordingly.

**Ballots in Review Period**

_Ballot SC14: Updated Phone Validation Methods_ (Doug)

_Ballot SC15: Remove Validation Method Number 9_ (Doug)

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration {.wp-block-heading}

_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)No additional comments were made.

### 8. Any Other Business {.wp-block-heading}

None.

### 9. Next call {.wp-block-heading}

February 21, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned {.wp-block-heading}