---
aliases:
- /2019-03-07-2019-02-21-minutes-for-ca-browser-forum/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-03-07 15:32:05
title: 2019-02-21 Minutes for CA/Browser Forum
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (SecureTrust), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Iñigo Barreira (360 Browser), Jeannie Rissman (Network Solutions), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Tomasz Nowak (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Vijayakumar (Vijay) Manjunatha (eMudhra), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes



### 1. Roll Call



The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement



The Antitrust Statement was read

### 3. Review Agenda



Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference 

The minutes of February 7, 2019 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update 

Wayne reported that the Working Group will proceed with the new opensource wiki instance (DocuWiki) that is very similar to what we currently have, but with more features around permissions. Cisco will host or is willing to host an instance of DocuWiki on their AWS account on behalf of the Forum. Jos will probably set this up so we can start migrating documents from the existing wiki to the new one. There are some conversion utility scripts that can assist in this process that can hopefully migrate tables as well.

There was some discussion about converting the Infrastructure Working Group into a Subcommittee when the Bylaws are amended and it seemed more trouble to convert to a Subcommittee.

### 6. Follow-up on new WG Charters (Code Signing, S/MIME)



Ballot Forum-8 for the creation of the Code Signing Working Group is currently in the discussion period. Dimitris sent a red-lined version that aligns with some recommended changes proposed in the Bylaws, including two comments. Ben will review and send an updated charter, restarting the discussion period dates. Members did not raise any concerns about the core elements of the charter.

The S/MIME WG charter will be based on the Code Signing WG Charter so we will wait to see how well the Code Signing Charter will go and prepare the S/MIME accordingly.

### 7. Upcoming F2F 46 meeting March 12-14, 2019 (hosted by Apple) 

The final meeting location is posted on the wiki. There was some discussion about the limits of the meeting room and the wiki will be updated to set this maximum cap. Remote audio/video participation will be available and access information will be circulated to Members a few days before the meeting.

### 8. CA/B Forum Agenda for F2F 46 

Dimitris read the topics of the current draft agenda and received no comments about the topics or time allocations. There are still open slots that can be used for additional topics or to extend the time of existing topics. Members should contact Dimitris, Dean or send their thoughts to the public list for new topics.

### 9. Any Other Business 

None.

### 10. Bylaws and existing Charters update 

Wayne recapped the main topics that are addressed in the Bylaws and Server Certificate WG Charter update. He sent an e-mail on Tuesday Feb 19th, summarizing these topics, and attached red-lined versions of the proposed new Bylaws and new SCWG Charter on the public list.

As agreed on the last teleconference, these changes will be introduced by one big ballot because Members prefer their legal teams to review these changes all at once, so there will be more time for legal review than usual ballots. Members are strongly advised to send these documents for legal review as soon as possible. We intend to discuss the final changes of these documents at the F2F meeting and Members should be ready to discuss any concerns raised by their legal or other teams. Once we address these concerns, a ballot proposing these changes will be drafted soon after the F2F.

What we have seen in the past and we must avoid, is that some Members start reviewing these documents when they are in the discussion period and raise concerns then. Since we already have a “stable” version of the proposed changes today, we should proceed with review as soon as possible and be ready to discuss final issues at the F2F.

### 11. Next call 

March 7, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned