---
aliases:
- /2019-06-30-2019-05-30-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-06-30 16:06:41
title: 2019-05-30 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mariusz Kondratowicz (Opera Software AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tomasz Nowak (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon).

## Minutes



### 1. Roll Call



The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement



The Antitrust Statement was read

### 3. Review Agenda



The Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference 

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Membership application of MSC Trustgate and iTrusChina 

MSC Trustgate and iTrusChina were not trusted by a Certificate Consumer of the SCWG so according to the SCWG charter they were granted Associate Membership. The WG designated a period of time of 12 months. Before this time expires, the SCWG will re-examine the associate membership status of these two CAs.

A question was raised about whether these members needed to have applied for inclusion in any Root program. The discussion resulted that this was not a necessary requirement according to the SCWG charter or the Bylaws. In any case, Dimitris confirmed that both of these CAs had applied at least to the Mozilla Root store according to Bugzilla.

### 6. Validation Subcommittee Update



Doug gave the report. It was a short meeting that didn’t go into a lot of details. It was mostly a preparation of topics for the F2F meeting.

### 7. NetSec Subcommittee Update 

Ben gave the report. The Subcommittee has prepared two ballots (SC20, SC21) that include some improvements to the network security requirements. The SC also prepares a response to Ryan’s comments.

### 8. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period 

_None_

#### Ballots in Voting Period 

_None_

#### Ballots in Review Period 

_None_

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration



_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)
No additional comments
\_
SC20 Ballot (NSR 2): System Configuration Management\_ (Ben)
No additional comments

_SC21 Ballot (NSR 3): Log Integrity Controls_ (Ben)
No additional comments

### 9. Approval of F2F 47 Agenda 

Dimitris went through the Server Certificate Working Group agenda for the next F2F. There were no objections to the current draft agenda.

### 10. Any Other Business 

None.

### 11. Next call 

June 27, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned