---
aliases:
- /2019-07-22-2019-06-27-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-07-22 15:33:50
title: 2019-06-27 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) {.wp-block-heading}

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Frank Corday (SecureTrust), Geoff Keating (Apple), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Mariusz Kondratowicz (Opera Software AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes

{.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call

{.wp-block-heading}

The Vice-Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

{.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read

### 3. Review Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

The Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference {.wp-block-heading}

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update

{.wp-block-heading}

Tim gave the report. It was a short meeting discussing the action items from the last F2F meeting. There will be a couple of ballot coming out soon.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update {.wp-block-heading}

The Subcommittee has not met yet after the F2F so there is no update. Kirk asked what was next on the agenda and order of work for the subcommittee. Ben didn’t have this information ready and would get back with that information later.

### 7. Ballot Status {.wp-block-heading}

Tim H. noticed that ballot SC17 had cleared the review period but GitHub hadn’t been updated. Wayne responded that on the web site there is an updated version of the EV guidelines including SC17, Dimitris probably hasn’t updated GitHub yet. Wayne pointed out that this doesn’t affect the effectiveness of ballot SC17, people can rely on the published version on the web site.

#### Ballots in Discussion Period

{.wp-block-heading}

_None_

**Ballots in Voting Period**

_None_

**Ballots in Review Period**

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration

{.wp-block-heading}

_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)
No additional comments
\_
SC20 Ballot (NSR 2): System Configuration Management\_ (Ben)
No additional comments

_SC21 Ballot (NSR 3): Log Integrity Controls_ (Ben)
No additional comments

### 8. Review of F2F 47 Minutes {.wp-block-heading}

Wayne reminded members about the email Dimitris sent to the Management list with some instructions and tips on getting the minutes prepared, so we can approve them at the next teleconference.

### 9. Any Other Business {.wp-block-heading}

None.

### 10. Next call {.wp-block-heading}

July 11, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned {.wp-block-heading}