---
aliases:
- /2019-10-07-2019-09-19-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-10-07 14:14:42
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2019-09-19 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Curt Spann (Apple), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Devon O’Brien (Google), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes



### 1. Roll Call



Wayne took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement



The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda



No changes to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference 

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update 

Jos provided the update. He will introduce the ballot to re-charter the Infrastructure Working Group as a Forum subcommittee this week. He will also send out a survey to try getting the most convenient time for scheduling the bi-weekly calls.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group update 

Bruce mentioned that the Code Signing WG discussed about two items. The first item was about SHA1 in the CS BRs that deprecate it at the end of 2020. The WG discussed about advancing this deprecation date to May of 2020.

The second topic was to analyze the differences between the CS BRs and the EV CS requirements in order to identify what are the “EV” differences and what are the other differences that are material or not, so that the two documents could be merged and also in an RFC 3647 format. The WG is still examining these possibilities. Auditors also participated in the call and they stated that they wouldn’t have an issue to update their audit criteria if the requirements were merged into one document.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter 

No update.

### 8. Any Other Business 

None.

### 9. Next call



October 3, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned