---
aliases:
- /2019/06/30/2019-05-30-minutes-for-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-06-30 16:09:49
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2019-05-30 Minutes for the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mariusz Kondratowicz (Opera Software AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tomasz Nowak (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon).

## Minutes

{.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Roll Call

{.wp-block-heading}

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

{.wp-block-heading}

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda

{.wp-block-heading}

Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference

The minutes from the previous teleconference were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

The minutes from F2F 46 were approved and will be posted to the public web site.

### 5. Results of Membership applications of MSC Trustgate and iTrusChina

The Server Certificate Working Group approved the applications of MSC Trustgate and iTrusChina as Associate Members in the Root Certificate Issuer category with a duration of 12 months. Before this time expires, the SCWG will re-examine the associate membership status of these two CAs.

### 6. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update

Jos provided the report. The WG discussed the fact that some Members would like to know which representatives have access to which resources (wiki, management mailing lists, public lists with posting rights, etc). Access to these resources should be granular so that a Member can choose the different access privileges of their representatives per resource. This seems difficult to maintain. As a first step, the Infrastructure WG will send a message to the management list with the access information of various resources per member.

Ultimately, the Spreadsheet should be the single source of truth for membership access.

We had some difficulties with migrating the mailing lists which was a combination of the old server and the new environment which needs some permissions from AWS to allow outgoing email from the new virtual machine. When these issues are resolved and we have a plan forward, we will notify the Forum in case of outage so that forthcoming ballots are planned accordingly.

The public web site (wordpress) will be scheduled for migration along with the old wiki. Travis and Josh from GoDaddy are preparing for this.

### 7. Code Signing Working Group update

Dean provided the report. The discussion period for ballot CSC-1 is almost over and the voting starts after that. Because this is a new full Guideline, it requires a 60 days IP Review Period. We will have a quite full agenda for the upcoming F2F to discuss possible improvements of the existing documents among other things. The WG is keeping a sharepoint page that keeps track of those improvements that will be proposed in the future

### 8. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter

Nothing to report.

### 9. Approval of F2F 47 Agenda

Dimitris went through the CA/B Forum plenary agenda for the next F2F. There were no objections to the current draft agenda.

### 10. Any Other Business

The new Bylaws (version 2.2) have been published on the web site. Dimitris has asked all Members to review and abide with the new Bylaws.

The doodle poll for Guangzhou resulted on picking the dates in November, so the meeting will take place November 5-7, 2019.

Dimitris sent a proposal to the management list about acknowledging the antitrust rules during registration of the F2F meeting so we don’t have to the antitrust statement at the beginning of every meeting. There was agreement that this is currently not supported by the Bylaws, we cannot accept it. However, it might be added on the issues to discuss in an upcoming bylaws update. The membership criteria need some clarifications too.

Doug mentioned that Globalsign is planning on hosting in Tokyo in October 2020. The summer Olympics are a little before that and Globalsign wants to lock in dates as in order to locate a venue as soon as possible. It’s not too early to start a doodle poll with available dates so Globalsign can get some initial feedback for preferable dates. Dough agreed to send out some possible dates.

### 11. Next call

{.wp-block-heading}

June 27, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned