---
aliases:
- /2019-03-07-2019-02-21-minutes-of-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-03-07 15:28:58
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2019-02-21 Minutes of Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (SecureTrust), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Iñigo Barreira (360 Browser), Jeannie Rissman (Network Solutions), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Tomasz Nowak (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Vijayakumar (Vijay) Manjunatha (eMudhra), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes



### 1. Roll Call



The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement



The Antitrust Statement was read

### 3. Review Agenda



The Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference 

The minutes of February 7, 2019 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site..

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update



Tim H. reported that on their last subcommittee meeting, they invited representatives of GLEIF to discuss about LEI. The entire call was basically a Q&A from members trying to clarify some issues with LEI that is considered to be included in Certificates. Where were no specific follow-ups but this topic will certainly be discussed by the Validation SC at the F2F and future calls.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update 

There was nothing new to report.

### 7. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period



None

**Ballots in Voting Period**

None

**Ballots in Review Period**

\_Ballot SC7: Update IP Address Validation Methods (Wayne)

Ballot SC14: Updated Phone Validation Methods\_ (Doug)

_Ballot SC15: Remove Validation Method Number 9_ (Doug)

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration



_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)No additional comments were made.

### 8. SCWG – F2F Agenda 

Dimitris read the topics of the current draft agenda and received no comments about the topics or time allocations. There are still open slots that can be used for additional topics or to extend the time of existing topics. Members should contact Dimitris, Wayne or send their thoughts to the public list for new topics.

### 9. Any Other Business 

None.

### 10. Next call 

March 7, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned