---
aliases:
- /2019-08-26-2019-08-08-minutes-for-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2019-08-26 15:03:42
title: 2019-08-08 Minutes for the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alen (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Tim Shirley (SecureTrust), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes 

### 1. Roll Call 

The Vice-Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement 

The Antitrust Statement was read.

### 3. Review Agenda 

Todayâ€™s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of minutes from previous teleconference 

Minutes were approved

### 5. Forum Infrastructure Working Group Update 

Jos reported that there was no meeting this week due to holidays for many people. Meetings will resume in September. A ballot was floated on the mailer to re-charter the working group into a subcommittee. Kirk commented that pipermail is not picking up many of the group emails. Several people questioned that and Jos said he would check with GoDaddy to make sure everything is being archived properly.

### 6. Code Signing Working Group Update 

Dean stated that the IPR review period will end next week. He also stated that the group discussed removing timestamping references from the code signing documents to put them into a separate, dedicated document for that exclusive purpose. The group will review the charter to see if that is within scope.

### 7. Follow-up on new S/MIME WG Charter 

Tim was not available. No new information

### 8. Approval of F2F 47 Minutes 

The minutes from F2F 47 were approved and will be circulated to the public list.

### 9. Any Other Business 

Dean mentioned that the venue for the Fall meeting was posted to the management list and encouraged members to sign up (on the wiki) to attend the meeting, to help our host plan properly.

### 10. Next call: Aug 22, 2019 at 11am Eastern Time 

### Meeting Adjourned