---
aliases:
- /2021-05-13-2021-04-29-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2021-05-13 21:06:00
title: 2021-04-29 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendance 

Aaron Gable (Let’s Encrypt), Abdul Hakeem Putra (MSC Trustgate), Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Ali Gholami (Telia), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (DigiCert), Curt Spann (Apple), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Inigo Barreira (Sectigo), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (GoDaddy), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Natalia Kotliarsky (SecureTrust), Maileen Del Rosario (GoDaddy), Brittany Randall (GoDaddy)

## Minutes 

Anti-Trust statement read, no changes to the agenda

### 

Infrastructure subcommittee update given by Jos

1. The anti-spam measures weren’t on and have been turned on. All of the emails for the infrastructure group are going to infrabot, so if people want to join the email list, they should ask. The group is also working are getting rid of bounced email address. If there are any issues with not getting emails, reach out to the infrastructure working groups. Check with the corporate email providers as they may have done some blockers as well.
1. Tried to get digest emails working on Gitlab. Have a test website for the revisions to the CABForum site.
1. Started to dig into membership management and the membership spread sheet.
1. There is some discussion around interested parties and getting their input. Wayne has added information on the site that becoming an interested party is the right way to go about it.

### 

Code Signing Working Group given by Bruce

1. Discussed how timestamping works and whether it is in the charter. Nothing has been resolved yet. Discussion will continue in the working group.
1. Restore clean up ballot: having some challenges with version control and moving forward.

### 

SMIME working group given by Stephen

1. Going through using the TLS baseline as a model for the SMIME. There is language regarding government entities. Is the content in section 8.4 still relevant and is it relevant for CAs that have the email trust bit? Will be reaching out to CAs
1. Doing some research on how different consumer products take in SMIME certificates and other fields.
1. Ongoing discussion related to the SAN field, in particular the use of the other name. This would be related to the legacy profile rather than the strict profile. Continue discussion in calls this upcoming week.
1. Targeting having a rough draft before the June face-to-face.

### 

June Face to Face

1. Had discussion on different dates and time structure. Will be setting a meeting with working groups to discuss.
1. One guest speaker has already been found

### 

Any other business?

- Dimitris: Is there any plans on tackling the working group charter alignment? The charters are not aligned, particularly the SMIME.
- A: Not aware of any discussion but is a good idea. A task group has been proposed to do this and will be scheduled for the future.

Next call is May 13th