---
aliases:
- /2021-12-02-2021-12-02-minutes-of-the-code-signing-certificate-working-group/
author: Corey Bonnell
date: 2021-12-02 17:00:00
tags:
- Code Signing
title: 2021-12-02 Minutes of the Code Signing Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees 

Andrea Holland, Atsushi Inaba, Bruce Morton, Chris Kemmerer, Correy Bonnell, Dean Coclin, Dimitris Zacharopoulos, Ian McMillan, Inigo Barreira, Janet Hines, Joanna Fox, Kiran Tummala, Michael Sykes, Sebastian Schulz, Tim Crawford, Tim Hollebeek

## Minutes 

Approved minutes from previous Nov 18, 2021 meeting

### Discussion regarding SC-50 from Server Working Group 

- Bruce Morton suggests dropping SC-50 (Ballot is concerned with removal of 4.1.1)
- Ian McMillan concurs with no other objections regarding SC-50

### Ballot CSC-12 

- Revocation date verification ballot currently under IPR review; period ends Dec 03, 2021
- Plan is push out latest version of CSBR’s Dec 03, 2021 afternoon

### Ballot CSC-6 

- 11.7 (Processing High Risk Applicants)

processing requirements; Reference 16.3.1 updates keep existing language until Sep 2022

- 11.3 (Age of Certificate Data)

Add sentence for consolidation of age data; Keep 13 months terminology

- 16.3.2 (4) (Subscriber Private Key Verification)

IT Audit language augmented to include “suitable hardware crypto module” (standardize usage of term) & specify “Code Signing certificates”

Tim Crawford perceives language and definitions to be auditable as long as verification can be obtained

- 16.3.2(3) (Subscriber Private Key Verification)

CA specifies CSP support and thus control

Need to define CSP

Consolidate 16.3.1 callouts to single reference in paragraph above (include “suitable hardware crypto module”)

### CSBR Format Change 

- CSC-6 change pass IPR review; update 3647 format and integrate that language
- Review current draft language of 3647 format
- Cory B mapping tables

Provide full demonstration on how we manage document

### Other Business 

- Open source projects

How to enable Code Signing certs for open source projects? Different policies?

Practices of Open Source project reviewed?

Guest speaker Open Source community representative

Next Meeting is December 16th, Meeting is adjourned