---
aliases:
- /2021-08-05-2021-07-22-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2021-08-05 17:38:36
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2021-07-22 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees 

Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Christy Berghoff (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Sebastian Schulz (GlobalSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Natalia Kotliarsky (SecureTrust), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Fumihiko Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services), Mike Min (GoDaddy)

## 1. Read Antitrust Statement 

Jos Purvis read the antitrust statement.

## 2. Roll Call 

Dean Coclin read the roll.

## 3. Review Agenda 

No changes were made to the agenda.

## 4. Approval of minutes from last teleconference 

The minutes from the last call were approved.

## 5. Validation Subcommittee Update 

Doug Beattie said that last week’s call was short. Ryan Sleevi said that SC48 was mentioned, and members were requested to review and comment on the new certificate profiles (which can be found at )

## 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update 

Bruce Morton said that there was no meeting.

## 7. Ballot Status 

### Ballots in Discussion Period 

None

### Ballots in Voting Period 

#### Ballot SC48: Domain Name and IP Address Encoding 

Jos said that voting has ended. It was noted that a vote was received from Cisco after voting had ended and would not be counted.

### Ballots in Review Period 

- Ballot SC47: Sunset subject:organizationalUnitName (Completes 2021-Aug-07)

### Draft Ballots Under Consideration 

#### Ballot SCXX: Debian Weak Keys (Chris) 

Chris Kemmerer said that he will update the thread and ask for feedback on how to proceed.

#### Ballot SC34 Account Management (Tobi) 

Tobi Josefowitz said he had no update this week.

## 8. Any Other Business 

Jos said that we’re not required to approve interested party applications, but it sometimes helps to identify issues. We have received an application from emdha. Their IPR agreement is on the wiki. There were no objections to admitting emdha as an interested party.

Dean asked about the minutes for the June face-to-face. Jos said that he would publish them soon for the Wednesday and Thursday sessions. Subcommittees that met on Tuesday will need to publish the minutes from their meetings.

## 9. Next call 

August 5th, 2021 at 11AM Eastern Adjourn; Immediately convene meeting of CA Browser Forum call (same call)