---
aliases:
- /2021-09-17-2021-09-02-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2021-09-17 15:44:50
title: 2021-09-02 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees 

Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Ali Gholami (Telia), Amanda Mendieta (Apple), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Brittany Randall (GoDaddy), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Chris McMillan (Visa), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), David Kluge (Google), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Fumihiko Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (TrustCor Systems), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mike Min (GoDaddy), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Vijayakumar (Vijay) Manjunatha (eMudhra), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services), Steven Deitte (GoDaddy)

## Minutes 

### 1. Roll Call and Anti-Trust Statement 

Jos read the anti-trust statement. Dean read the roll, noting the addition of several people who joined.

### 2. Review of Minutes 

The minutes from the meeting on the 19th were approved as released to the management list without changes.

### 3. Validation Subcommittee 

Corey Bonnell gave the update. The subcommittee met on 26 August and discussed two main topics. First was a discussion on some topics within the draft profiles work by Ryan Sleevi (that were discussed on the recent Github pull request) around subject key identifiers and calculations for them; second was a discussion around name constraints and the draft certificate profile under construction. Corey noted that Wayne had taken extensive minutes from the discussion and recommended that everyone peruse them for updates and background on the topics discussed. Corey noted that Wayne had also raised the question of whether an applicant could delegate domain validation for its own domain to the CA itself. The consensus of the group was that this merited further discussion and consideration to identify requirements.

### 4. Network Security Subcommittee 

Ben gave the update. Ben reported that NetSec had finalized their new leadership, consisting of Clint Wilson as chair and David Kluge as vice-chair, with Ben available as a backup. The committee is also considering changing the date and time of their meetings and has a poll out to consider that. They’re working on restructuring the committee and identifying key goals and objectives for the group. Minutes from the meeting have been circulated to the NetSec mailing list.

### 5. Ballot Status 

_There are no ballots currently in voting, discussion, or review._

#### Draft Ballots 

##### Debian Weak Keys 

Chris said they have revived the discussion for this ballot on the list, and they have an endorsement from Rob from Sectigo, and that Rob had suggested some re-arrangement to present resources that they think are worthwhile. Updates on the ballot will be released to the mailing list forthwith.

##### SC34 Account Management 

Tobi was not on the call; no update was provided. Ben noted that Tobi is still looking for a second endorser, and asked Trev to follow up with Tobi about it.

### 6. Any Other Business 

#### Vice-Chair Elections 

Jos noted that we have finished the proposed nomination period and now have one nomination, Doug Beattie. Nominations are extended through midnight Eastern Time on 2 September, and then will be closed. If there is still only one nominee, there will be an acclamation ballot; if there is more than one, we will have an election ballot. Jos will be releasing the appropriate ballot type on the 3rd to start the discussion period. Jos asked that anyone nominating please post to the mailing list and update the wiki page linked from the nomination announcement.

Jos then raised the question from the Management list about Wayne’s inclusion in calls. Wayne has changed his affiliation to his new employer, Fastly, who is an Interested Party in the Forum. As such, Wayne requires an explicit invitation to attend any calls or committee meetings for the Forum, per the Bylaws. In recognition of Wayne’s long involvement with the Forum and his continued interest in contributing, members had asked that Wayne be invited to Forum and Server-Cert Working Group teleconferences. Jos proposed a standing invitation to Wayne to all SCWG teleconferences at least through the end of Wayne’s term as SCWG Vice-Chair (ending 31 October 2022). There were no objections, so the invitation will be extended.

#### Fall Virtual Face-to-Face 

Planning for the Fall Virtual Face-to-Face meeting is underway, and Jos noted that a draft agenda for the meeting is available on the wiki. Jos, Karina, and Dean are working on the scheduling, and are starting from the schedule for the previous F2F. Committee chairs and those with issues they’d like to discuss at the Face-to-Face are invited to contact any of those three people to have an agenda slot reserved. In addition, Dean asked that any committees or members that do _not_ need to present please contact the planners to yield their time, so that we can re-allocate it to other discussions.

Trev asked whether, since the fall meeting had been planned for Asia, the Virtual F2F would be held in Asia time zones. Jos replied that for now the planners are intending to continue with the US/East time zone schedule for the meeting, but that if there are concerns about it to please raise them.

Dean pointed out there are about 27 people registered for the fall meeting and asked everyone to please register as soon as possible. Jos pointed out that registrations for the virtual face-to-face are still important since they allow the planners to construct the roll sheets for the meetings ahead of time, simplifying roll call.

### 7. Adjourn 

The meeting was adjourned for the CA/Browser Forum plenary call. The next meeting is 16 September at 11:00 US/East.