---
aliases:
- /2021-12-09-2021-12-09-minutes-of-ca-b-forum/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2021-12-09 17:18:00
tags:
- Forum
title: 2021-12-09 Minutes of CA/B Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

**Attendees:** Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Brittany Randall (GoDaddy), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Chris McMillan (Visa), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Fumihiko Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (TrustCor Systems), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Jose Guzman (GoDaddy), Karina Sirota (Microsoft),Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (GoDaddy), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Dickson (Google), Sebastian Schulz (GlobalSign), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yosiaki Iida (SECOM Trust Systems), Adam Jones (Microsoft), PekkaLahtiharju (Telia)

**Opening Procedures**– Karina

Roll Call

Read Antitrust Statement

Review Agenda

Approval of minutes of last call

Approved

**Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee** update given by Jos Purvis

Reviewed plugin that will autosync Github content onto WordPress site

- Looks promising for automated publication of ballots that would allow it go to through a workflow and get published

- This doesn’t really work well for automated minutes publishing

- Will likely move forward on templates on how to do this for ballots

- Idea of having a governance subcommittee with representation from the working groups to maintain the bylaws

- Could have discussions on the bylaws as a group rather than pushing it on to the chair

- Publication of a new member packet and some checklists and some thoughts on what’s in the Google drive

- Github Activity summaries are going out automatically

- New membership spreadsheet has been populated

- Moving DNS for CABForum.net over

**Code Signing Certificate Working Group** update given by Bruce Morton

- 95% complete with ballot on subscriber key protection to get it out
- Improve keys and how Cas validate that the keys are in the hardware
- Close to moving the CSBRs to 3647 format and using the handoff format

**SMIME working group** update given by Ben Wilson

- Talking about identity, vetting, scoring
- Discussed NIST SP 800-63 frameworks for identifying people and to what degree they want to do that

**Next F2F**: Salt Lake City, Feb 22-24 2022. Wiki and hotel signups open

**Any Other Business:**

- None