---
aliases:
- /2021-08-05-2021-07-22-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2021-08-05 17:59:06
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2021-07-22 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees 

Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Christy Berghoff (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Sebastian Schulz (GlobalSign), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Natalia Kotliarsky (SecureTrust), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Fumihiko Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services), Mike Min (GoDaddy)

## Minutes 

### Opening Procedures- Dean 

- Roll Call
- Read Antitrust Statement
- Review Agenda
- Approval of minutes of last call
- Will send out last weekâ€™s for review next week
- Introduction of new members

### Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update given by Jos 

- Will be updating branching for version releases. Each branch will get released with version number and documents. Each branch will get tagged with the documents each branch modifies. Will only be updating as long as GitHub has been used. Should help with redline version as well.
- We will be manually deleting branches about a week after the ballot is done, but would eventually like to do this automatically.
- Eventually would like to move to doing automatic redlining ballot, but this is currently a manual process.
- Ryan clarified that there is some redlining going on for certain types of docs, but not for everything and to reach out to the group if help is needed.

### Code Signing Certificate Working Group update given by Bruce 

- Minute from face-to-face were approved, so those can be posted.
- There is an issue with the audit criteria for the new document, which is causing some issues in the CCADB.
- Ballot for cleanup and clarification has been put out. Ian is working on log data retention ballot currently
- Decided to work on signing service in the working group, not in a subcommittee.
- Trying to work ahead on moving the document to RFC 3647 and the new PanDoc format.

### SMIME working group update given by Stephen 

- Discussed the sponsored validation profile- this is a certificate that has both organization information and personal information, e.g. an employee of an organization.

### Fall F2F dates 

- October 12-14, 2021
- Looking at Professor from Israeli University as a guest speaker

### Any Other Business 

None

### Next call: August 5th