---
aliases:
- /2021/07/22/2021-07-08-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group-2/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2021-07-22 15:32:00
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2021-07-08 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees

Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Ali Gholami (Telia), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris McMillan (Visa), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Sebastian Schulz (GlobalSign), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Vijayakumar (Vijay) Manjunatha (eMudhra), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Fumihiko Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services)

## Minutes

### 1. Read Antitrust Statement

Jos Purvis read the antitrust statement.

### 2. Roll Call

Wayne Thayer read the roll.

### 3. Review Agenda

No changes were made to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of minutes from last teleconference

Jos said that the minutes from the face-to-face have been posted and asked if everyone is ready to approve. There were no objections, and the minutes from the face-to-face were approved.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update

Tim Hollebeek said that the certificate profile work was discussed. The consensus was that the draft is ready for CAs to review. Then they discussed ballot SC48.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update

Ben Wilson reported that the subcommittee met briefly. It was announced that Neil Dunbar is leaving his position at Trustcor and a new committee chair will need to be found.

Jos thanked Neil for his service to the Forum.

### 7. Ballot Status

#### Ballots in Discussion Period

##### Ballot SC48: Domain Name and IP Address Encoding

Corey Bonnell said that discussion had started on Tuesday. Two small typos were then identified and corrected, and discussion for version 2 of the ballot was started just before the meeting.

#### Ballots in Voting Period

None

#### Ballots in Review Period

- **Ballot SC47:** Sunset subject:organizationalUnitName (Completes 2021-Aug-07)
- **Ballot SC46:** Sunset the CAA Exception (Completes 2021-Jul-09)
- **Ballot SC45:** Validation methods for Wildcards/ADNs (Completes 2021-Jul-09)

#### Draft Ballots Under Consideration

##### Ballot SCXX: Debian Weak Keys (Chris)

No update.

##### Ballot SC34 Account Management (Tobi)

Tobi Josefowitz said he had no update this week.

### 8. Any Other Business

None

### 9. Next call: July 22, 2021 at 11AM Eastern

Adjourn; Immediately convene meeting of CA Browser Forum call (same call)