---
aliases:
- /2021-01-21-2021-01-07-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2021-01-21 17:34:59
title: 2021-01-07 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) {.wp-block-heading}

Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Ali Gholami (Telia), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Chris McMillan (Visa), Christy Berghoff (Federal PKI), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (DigiCert), Christy Berghoff (Federal PKI), Corey Rasmussen (OATI), Curt Spann (Apple), Daniela Hood (GoDaddy), David Kluge (Google), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Nazril Bin Mohd Gahni (PoS Digicert), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Noorul Halimin Mansol (PoS Digicert), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Redha Hamzah (PoS Digicert), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla)

## Minutes {.wp-block-heading}

### CA/B Forum Meeting Minutes (2020-01-07) {.wp-block-heading}

Dean Coclin (DigiCert) CA/B Forum Chair

### Administrative Updates {.wp-block-heading}

·       Anti-trust statement was read

·       Agenda was reviewed. No comments.

·       Approval of December 10 minutes

o   No comments. Minutes approved.

### Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee {.wp-block-heading}

Jos Purvis (Cisco)

·       Ran thru Github discussions, tooling cleanups (as discussed in SCWG meeting)

- Ryan S said other working groups can use these tools

·       Reviewed mailer migration issues. Most issues solved.

·       Webex can now send directly to management list, making it easier for meeting scheduling

·       Membership management discussed, very labor intensive. Wayne developed a Google doc that is a “front door” to member list requests. This will help coordinate the list management.

### Code Signing Certificate Working Group {.wp-block-heading}

Dean Coclin (DigiCert)

·       Revisions made to CSCWG-7 to add an effective date and address other minor concerns

·       Several changes discussed that needed Ian’s input (from Microsoft). He was not on the last call so those items were tabled and will be discussed on the next call

·       Several questions about 3072 root  requirements and cross signing. Again, Ian needed for that discussion

### S/MIME Working Group {.wp-block-heading}

Stephen Davidson (DigiCert)

·       Group took a step back to focus on a larger discussion topic: how to go from current permissive environment and how to become stricter in the future (i.e. multipurpose vs S/MIME only)

·       Reaching out to email software providers to see what info they display for S/MIME

·       Moving to put out an early cut on S/MIME BRs as S/MIME only certs

·       Today many S/MIME certs allow for doc signing, authentication, etc. in addition to S/MIME

### Additional Administrative Updates {.wp-block-heading}

·       Doodle poll for spring meeting currently tied.

·       Dean asked members to please take a moment to fill out the poll so we can nail down the date very soon

·       Next Meeting scheduled for Jan 21st

### Adjourned {.wp-block-heading}