---
aliases:
- /2018-12-13-2018-12-13-minutes-for-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2018-12-13 17:43:00
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2018-12-13 Minutes for CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Anna Weinberg (Apple), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daymion Reynolds (GoDaddy), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Janet Hines (Trustwave), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (Trustwave), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Iñigo Barreira (360 Browser), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mahmud Khair (Trustwave), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Niko Carpenter (Trustwave), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (Trustwave), Tomasz Nowak (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes 

### 1. Roll Call 

The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement 

The Chair played back the Antitrust Statement.

### 3. Review Agenda 

Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference 

The minutes of November 29, 2018 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site.

### 5. Follow-up on new WG Charters 

Ben reported that he has received several e-mails from other members that offered to assist. He expects to work on this topic during the holidays.

### 6. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update 

There was no report from the Infrastructure Working Group because they didn’t meet this week.

Ben brought up an issue related to a table with relevant compliance dates for Guidelines and in particular the Baseline Requirements section 1.2.2. There is consensus among members that this table is “informative” but the contents of that table should probably be part of a ballot that introduces “compliance” deadlines or effective dates for some specific requirements.

Dimitris mentioned that he and Wayne (as Chair and Vice-Chair of the Server Certificate WG) would notice if a proposer forgot to include updates on this table and inform the proposer to include that information in the ballot. Members should be aware of this practice and include updates to this table in their ballots.

Trev suggested that tables of sections 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 should be merged or table 1.2.2 should include the ballot number that introduces the time-sensitive compliance requirement.

Kirk mentioned that the reason for this separation was that one ballot might introduce several “compliance” dates therefore it needed to be added in a separate table.

Dimitris proposed that this is discussed in the servercert-wg public list.

### 7. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period 

No ballots are in a Discussion Period.

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration 

No comments were made.

### 8. Any Other Business 

Dimitris announced the two confirmed Guest Speakers for the upcoming F2F meeting in Cupertino. They are:

- Cy Khormaee from Google. He is the PM responsible for SafeBrowsing.
- Ian Foster, also from Google, member of Google’s Security Team who did the BygoneSSL related research.

Dimitris also mentioned that there is a candidate Member to host for Spring 2020 but more options are welcome, especially from Europe as that year already has a F2F scheduled in North America and one in Asia.

### 9. Upcoming F2F 46 meeting March 12-14, 2019 (hosted by Apple) 

Geoff mentioned that if Members need Apple to provide invitation letters for participants that seek an exit visa (or any visa), to send their information to Apple as soon as possible. Holidays are approaching and there might be delays.

Kirk contacted Apple representatives about the meeting venue and hotel reservations. He reported that the reservation for the meeting room can take place 3 months before the meeting, and it will take place either at the old or new Apple headquarters. Apple has made arrangements for a group hotel at a group rate which is at a walking distance from Apple’s old headquarters. The Hotel accepts reservations that check-in on Monday and check-out in Friday but Kirk is working with Apple to see if they can extend this to cover both weekends before and after the meeting. More information will be sent to members and posted on the wiki regarding hotel reservations.

### 10. Upcoming F2F 47 meeting June 11-13, 2019 (hosted by Harica) 

Dimitris informed the Members that all travel information for F2F 47 in Thessaloniki, including hotel options, is available on the wiki for those who want to book early.

### 11. Next call 

January 10, 2019 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned