---
aliases:
- /2018-11-01-2018-nov-01-minutes-of-ca-browser-forum/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2018-11-01 15:11:52
title: 2018-Nov-01 Minutes of CA/Browser Forum
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Daymion Reynolds (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (Trustwave), Geoff Keating (Apple), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom Co. Ltd.), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Callan (Comodo CA –> Sectigo), Tim Shirley (Trustwave), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes 

1. **Roll Call** — The Chair took attendance.
1. **Read Antitrust Statement** — The Chair read the Antitrust Statement
1. **Review Agenda** — Today’s Agenda was approved.
1. **Approval of Minutes of previous meeting** — The minutes of CABF F2F Meeting 45 of Oct 17, 2018 were not approved because of missing minute — We kindly ask the remaining minute takers to publish their minutes to the wiki or contact the Chair if there is a problem.
1. **Update from Informal work group on governance and Bylaws issues** — Tim was not on the call, no report
1. **Follow-up on new WG Charters** — Ben sent out a draft “Bylaws WG Charter” and is using that as a template for other WG charters and using notes from the last F2F, specifically about the scope of Code Signing and S/MIME WGs. He will also listen to the recordings from the F2F and circulate draft Charters for these WGs as well before our next call. He asked for volunteers to Chair these WGs and Dimitris said that they could use a temporary Chair and once the WG is approved they can elect a new Chair and Vice-Chair.
1. **Other follow-up items from F2F meeting** — None.
1. **Forum Infrastructure Working Group update** — Discussed about document management and identified requirements for the “canonical version” of the documents, what format should we use to support these requirements. Then the WG discussed about wiki solutions where, again, will identify some requirements, examine different options and propose recommendations back to the Forum. Dimitris mentioned that he discussed with Trevoli from Amazon about the possibility of getting a couple of VMs so that the Forum can migrate the existing servers over. Trevoli is discussing with Legal and Finance about this request.
1. **Ballot Status**
   _Ballots in Discussion Period_
   No ballots are in a Discussion Period.
   _Draft Ballots under Consideration_
   No ballots under consideration.
1. **Any Other Business** — None.
1. **Next call** — November 15, 2018 at 11:00am Eastern Time.
1. **Adjourned**