---
aliases:
- /2018-11-15-2018-11-15-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2018-11-15 18:16:56
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2018-11-15 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Anna Weinberg (Apple), Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (Trustwave), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Leo Grove (SSL.com), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mike Reilly (Microsoft), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Rich Smith (Sectigo), Robin Alden (Sectigo), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority).

## Minutes 

### 1. Roll Call 

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement 

The Chair asked Mr. Robin Alden to read the Antitrust Statement.

### 3. Review Agenda 

Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of CABF F2F Meeting of Oct. 17, 2018 

The minutes were approved and will be posted to the Public web site and a link to those minutes will be posted to the Public mailing list.

### 5. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference 

The minutes of November 1, 2018 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site.

### 6. Application of DarkMatter for CABF Membership 

The Application was approved under the “Certificate Issuer” type. It was clarified that their certificates are Trusted by Certificate Consumers via a cross-signing agreement.

Dimitris brought up section 4.5 of the IPR policy that contain provisions for new Participants, in relation to existing Final Guidelines, Final Maintenance Guidelines and also Draft versions of those. He will bring this to DarkMatter’s attention and come up with a workable plan to meet this requirement. Kirk offered to help with the drafting of a document for new Participants in order to meet this IPR Policy requirement.

### 7. Follow-up on new WG Charters 

Ben is still working on a Bylaws and Governance Charter and is waiting for a resolution about whether this will be a Working Group or a Subcommittee. The other Charters are not tied to this. It was suggested that the Scope of each of the new WGs (related to Code Signing and S/MIME) would require some discussion and it should probably be discussed on the public list in parallel.

Kirk suggested to Ben working on an amendment of Bylaw 5.3 which describe how new CWGs are setup, and perhaps add mandatory provisions applicable to all CWGs for matters related to public minutes, posting things on a public mailing list. That would save this from being repeated in every CWG charter.

Kirk noted that the Certificate Consumers for new Working Groups will need to be described and suggested we discuss this topic on the public list as well.

### 8. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update 

Jos reported that the WG shall create a list of document requirements on the wiki and add a column to decide about “must have”, “nice to have” features for these documents. Depending on what the WG determines as “must have”, we can check how close we can get with Markdown and see if this will be a solution going forward.

Then the WG discussed about similar wiki requirements matrix, possible solutions and discussed about one potential solution, Sharepoint, where Gordon made a nice demo.

Kirk noted that ballot formats should stay the same as much as possible. Members can use whatever tools they prefer but the Chair would usually need to create a version.

Jos replied that this work would result in defining \*A\* canonical format of the documents and all the others would be derivatives of that. We would have to write a procedure to make these updates but that’s to be determined later.

Dimitris said that he participates in this WG and one of the goals is to make sure all the popular formats (PDF, word) are supported and produced by whatever canonical format is decided. That would make red-line comparisons between similar formats easy, hopefully.

### 9. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period 

No ballots are in a Discussion Period.

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration 

No comments were made.

### 10. Any Other Business 

Kirk asked about the invitation letters that some participants requested for the Cupertino meeting. Geoff said that members that need an invitation letter can email him directly (for Invitation Letter matters only) and he would make sure it reaches the right people for the completion of the process. Once Apple finalizes the procedure for creating such letters, Geoff will send a message to the management list with information and instructions.

### 11. Next call 

November 29, 2018 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned