---
aliases:
- /2018/11/29/2018-11-29-minutes-for-server-certificate-working-group-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2018-11-29 17:38:15
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2018-11-29 Minutes for Server Certificate Working Group Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order)

Anna Weinberg (Apple), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (Trustwave), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Julie Olson (Globalsign), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Michelle Coon (OATI), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (Trustwave), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes

### 1. Roll Call

The Chair took attendance.

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement

The Chair played back the Antitrust Statement.

### 3. Review Agenda

Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference

The minutes of November 15, 2018 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update

The Subcommittee did not have a meeting since the previous WG teleconference due to Thanksgiving holiday. There has been some discussion on the subcommittee mailing list around the organizationIdentifier field being requested to be allowed in EV Certificates. Tim mentioned that a significant portion of the next subcommittee meeting will be spent on that topic.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update

Ben reported that the NetSec Subcommittee will be meeting after the regular CA/B Forum teleconference. The first meeting will take place at noon Eastern Time. There is no specific agenda for the first meeting but will probably talk about previous work and what’s mandated in the new charter and scope how we want to approach the new subcommittee work. Ben took Tim’s advice to start a trello board, add tasks and track progress.

### 7. Ballot Status

#### Ballots in Discussion Period

_Ballot SC13: CAA Contact Property and Associated E-mail Validation Methods_ (Tim H.)
Tim will send an updated version with a couple of fixes based on the recent discussion, hoping this will be the last iteration before voting begins. He also mentioned that if members have any problems related to the proposed ballot to please speak up.

**Ballots in Review Period**
\_Ballot SC12 – Sunset of Underscores in dNSName_s (Wayne)
No exclusion notices have been filed so far.

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration

_Removing “any other method” for IP address_ (Tim H.)
This will probably be discussed in the upcoming Validation subcommittee call.

_Improvements for Method 6, website control_ (Tim H.)
No comments were made.

### 8. Any Other Business

None.

### 9. Next call

December 13, 2018 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned