---
aliases:
- /2018-11-29-2018-11-29-minutes-for-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2018-11-29 17:41:09
title: 2018-11-29 Minutes for CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Attendees (in alphabetical order) 

Anna Weinberg (Apple), Ben Wilson (Digicert), Bruce Morton (Entrust Datacard), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fotis Loukos (SSL.com), Frank Corday (Trustwave), Geoff Keating (Apple), Gordon Bock (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), India Donald (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Jeff Ward (CPA Canada/WebTrust), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Julie Olson (Globalsign), Kenneth Myers (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Kirk Hall (Entrust Datacard), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Michelle Coon (OATI), Neil Dunbar (TrustCor Systems), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Scott Rea (Dark Matter), Shelley Brewer (Digicert), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tim Shirley (Trustwave), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla).

## Minutes 

### 1. Roll Call 

The Chair took attendance

### 2. Read Antitrust Statement 

The Chair played back the Antitrust Statement.

### 3. Review Agenda 

Today’s Agenda was approved.

### 4. Approval of Minutes of previous teleconference 

The minutes of November 15, 2018 teleconference were approved and will be posted to the Public list and the Public web site.

### 5. Follow-up on new WG Charters 

Ben reported that he is working on the new WG Charters. The Chair asked Members that are interested in joining new WGs related to S/MIME and/or Code Signing to please come forward and assist with the chartering process.

Kirk suggested that we should collect provisions applicable to all CWGs (including their Subcommittees) for matters related to public minutes, posting things on a public mailing list, and add them in a Forum ballot. He volunteered to draft a “proto” ballot and other member can add language that would end up in a ballot to update the Bylaws.

Kirk noted that the Certificate Consumers for new Working Groups will need to be described and suggested we discuss this topic on the public list as well.

### 6. Forum Infrastructure Working Group update 

Jos reported that the WG had a meeting and spent most time discussion about document management and the canonical version of the Guidelines. The WG seems to be settling down to suggesting Markdown and GitHub as the canonical versions to the Forum. There are still some issues to resolve to make sure that Markdown will meet the necessary Formatting requirements identified by the WG. In particular, the WG wants to make sure that the produced PDFs meet the formatting requirements.

The role of the Chair or Vice-Chair in WGs was also discussed, in regards to making changes to the canonical documents and the balloting procedure. Some instructions are currently being drafted by the Chair with the assistance of Vice-Chairs

### 7. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period 

No ballots are in a Discussion Period.

#### Draft Ballots under Consideration 

No comments were made.

### 8. Any Other Business 

DarkMatter offered to host the F2F meeting in Spring 2020 in Dubai.

### 9. Upcoming F2F 46 meeting March 12-14, 2019 (hosted by Apple) 

Geoff mentioned that Apple is ready to process invitation letters for participants that seek an exit visa (or any visa). They need to send their name and passport number number to Apple.

Hotel reservations and the meeting location was also discussed on the call.

### 10. Upcoming F2F 47 meeting June 11-13, 2019 (hosted by Harica) 

Dimitris informed the Members that all travel information for F2F 47 in Thessaloniki, including hotel options is available on the wiki for those who want to book early.

### 11. Next call 

December 13, 2018 at 11:00 am Eastern Time.

### Adjourned