---
aliases:
- /2022-09-29-2022-09-29-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2022-09-29 11:31:00
tags:
- Server Certificates
title: 2022-09-29 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees {.wp-block-heading}

Adam Jones (Microsoft), Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Clements (Google), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Daryn Wright (GoDaddy), David Kluge (Google), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fumi Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate Sdn Bhd), Hogeun Yoo (NAVER Cloud), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Inigo Barreira (Sectigo), Joanna Fox (TrustCor Systems), John Mason (Microsoft), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Fastly), Kiran Tummala (Microsoft), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Lynn Jeun (Visa), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Michelle Coon (OATI), Nargis Mannan (SecureTrust), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Dickson (Google), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Steven Deitte (GoDaddy), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services)

## Minutes {.wp-block-heading}

### 1. Read Antitrust Statement {.wp-block-heading}

Dean Coclin read the antitrust statement.

### 2. Roll Call {.wp-block-heading}

Jos Purvis read the roll.

### 3. Review Agenda {.wp-block-heading}

No changes were made to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of Minutes from Last Teleconference {.wp-block-heading}

The minutes from the 15-September call were approved without changes.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update {.wp-block-heading}

Corey Bonnell said that the group met last week and first reviewed a PR related to EV subject attributes for the profiles ballot. There was general agreement, however some further clarification of the language may be attempted. Second, the group continued their review of the uses of “Applicant” and “Applicant Representative” in the BRs. They made it through all the domain validation methods, and agreed to skip the IP address validation methods. The group will continue this review next week.

### 6. Ballot Status {.wp-block-heading}

#### Ballots in Discussion Period {.wp-block-heading}

- None

#### Ballots in Voting Period {.wp-block-heading}

- **SC55 – Election of the SCWG Chair**

Jos said that there are two candidates – Inigo Barreira and Tim Hollebeek. Please submit votes by email to Don Sheehy and Clemens Wanko by tomorrow at 12:00 EDT. We’ll have results on the next call.

#### Ballots in Review Period {.wp-block-heading}

- None

#### Draft Ballots Under Consideration {.wp-block-heading}

- **Revival of Debian Weak Keys**

Chris Kemmerer said that he is still seeking endorsers and will post a plea to the thread next week if no one steps forward before then.

- **SLO/Response for CRL & OCSP Responses**

David Kluge said that he has no update this week.

- **Incorporation of Mozilla Revocation Reason Codes**

Ben Wilson said that he is working with two endorsers on revisions to the ballot.

### 7. Any Other Business {.wp-block-heading}

- **Update on election of SCWG Chair / Vice Chair**

Jos reiterated that the voting period for SCWG chair closes tomorrow.

Dean asked if there are any nominations for Vice Chair.

Jos said that there are no nominations at this time, and he encouraged nominations including of the candidates for Chair, Nominations close on Monday.

Dimitris Zacharopoulos asked if the nomination period has commenced for SCWG Vice Chair?

Dean quoted an email from September 12 that opened Vice Chair nominations for the Forum and all working groups.

Jos said that we could extend the period if needed.

Dean said that he has no nominations for CSC and SMC Vice Chair.

Jos said that he will send out an email and extend the nomination period to the end of next week

Inigo Barreiraasked when results will be communicated, and Dean said that they should be announced tomorrow.

Trevoli Ponds-White said that we have agreed to vote for Vice Chairs after Chairs. Do we need to amend the Bylaws to make this clear?

Dean said that Tim is planning a Bylaws update that will clarify the election process, and Dimitris agreed.

### 8. Next call: 12-October 2022 at 11AM Eastern {.wp-block-heading}

Adjourn; Immediately convene meeting of CA Browser Forum (same call)