---
aliases:
- /2022-04-28-2022-04-28-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2022-04-28 16:02:00
tags:
- Forum
title: 2022-04-28 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## 1. Opening Procedures – Dean {.wp-block-heading}

### Attendees {.wp-block-heading}

Adam Jones (Microsoft), Amanda Mendieta (Apple), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Corey Rasmussen (OATI), Daryn Wright (GoDaddy), David Kluge (Google), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fumi Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Heather Warncke (Amazon), Hogeun Yoo (NAVER Cloud), Hubert Chao (Google), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Inigo Barreira (Sectigo), Jamie Mackey (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines (SecureTrust), Joanna Fox (TrustCor Systems), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Nargis Mannan (SecureTrust), Niko Carpenter (SecureTrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (GoDaddy), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Thomas Zermeno (SSL.com), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services)

### Read Antitrust Statement- Jos Purvis {.wp-block-heading}

### Review Agenda {.wp-block-heading}

- Approval of minutes of last call
- Approved

## 2. Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update given by Jos Purvis {.wp-block-heading}

- Reviewed work that is being done on new membership site- working on fixing bugs and hopeful to have something to show in the near future
- Discussed publication guidelines for posting to the publication website as written by Ben Wilson to make content on the website more consistent and easier to search and find. This will be going out to management list for feedback.

## 3. Code Signing Certificate Working Group update given by Bruce Morton {.wp-block-heading}

- Moving focus to reformat ballot with upcoming discussion period. Hopefully will have format changed to format 3647 in the next month or so
- Subscriber key protection follow-up ballot coming to address some concerns

## 4. SMIME working group update given by Stephen Davidson {.wp-block-heading}

- Lining up to do wider discussion on the ballot for adoption of the draft. Feedback is already coming in and the WG has gone back to review the specification.
- The organizational identity requirements had been lifted from the EV TLS guidelines and there was some concern that there were some parts that weren’t as relevant for S/MIME. Current discussions are continuing to find the right level of validation.

## 5. NetSec Working Group given by Clint Wilson {.wp-block-heading}

- Discussed OCSP uptime ballot and agreed that it should go to the server certificate working group but the S/MIME WG should follow to add this topic into their BRs and others as well. This can become a template for other things.
- Request to others to look over David Kluge’s draft and review and provide feedback
- Q: Is there good participation in the meetings?
- Yes and looking for more participants

## 6. Any Other Business {.wp-block-heading}

- Meeting in Poland is still in on and there won’t be conflict with the other meeting
- Discussed what time it should meet, but likely will be starting around noon in Poland, which is about 6am on the east coast
- Wiki sign-ups are open.