---
aliases:
- /2022-08-04-2022-08-04-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2022-08-04 19:22:00
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2022-08-04 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees 

Aaron Poulsen (Amazon), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Chris Clements (Google), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Corey Rasmussen (OATI), Daryn Wright (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fumi Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Hazhar Ismail (MSC Trustgate Sdn Bhd), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Inigo Barreira (Sectigo), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Fastly), Kiran Tummala (Microsoft), Lynn Jeun (Visa), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Michael Guenther (SwissSign), Michelle Coon (OATI), Nargis Mannan (SecureTrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Ryan Dickson (Google), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Steven Deitte (GoDaddy), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services)

## Minutes 

### 1. Read Antitrust Statement 

Jos Purvis read the antitrust statement.

### 2. Review Agenda 

No changes were made to the agenda.

### 3. Approval of Minutes from Last Teleconference 

The minutes from the 21-July call were approved without changes.

Jos said that the content of the Warsaw face-to-face minutes is on the wiki and complete.

Dean Coclin said that the linked presentations and attendance have been added.

Jos asked if we are ready to approve, and Wayne Thayer said we should approve.

The minutes of the face-to-face were approved, and will be published to the public mailing list.

### 4. Validation Subcommittee Update 

Corey Bonnell said that the subcommittee met last Thursday. They spent the whole time reviewing tasks in the GitHub project, moving some to on-deck and closing others. At the next meeting we’ll prioritize the on-deck items.

### 5. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period 

- None

#### Ballots in Voting Period 

- None

#### Ballots in Review Period 

- None

#### Draft Ballots Under Consideration 

- **Revival of Debian Weak Keys**

Chris Kemmerer said he had a request for further discussion from Martijn Katerbarg about referencing external tools. We have a dedicated page on the website. It might be a good idea to reference those tools in the BRs, but that reference doesn’t need to be buried in section 6.1.1.3. Chris said that he is still seeking endorsers.

- **SLO/Response for CRL & OCSP Responses**

David Kluge was not on the call. Clint Wilson said that there will be more discussion later today.

### 6. Any Other Business 

- **Interested Party Review**

Jos said that Tanat Tonguthaisri from Southeast Asia University in Thailand submitted the IPR agreement and will become an individual interested party.

### 7. Roll Call 

Dean Coclin read the roll.

### 8. Next call: 18-August 2022 at 11AM Eastern 

Adjourn; Immediately convene meeting of CA Browser Forum (same call)