---
aliases:
- /2022/02/03/2022-02-03-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2022-02-03 21:34:56
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2022-02-03 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees

Adam Jones (Microsoft), Amanda Mendieta (Apple), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Daryn Wright (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fumi Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Heather Warncke (Amazon), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Inigo Barreira (Sectigo), Israel Ventura (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Joanna Fox (TrustCor Systems), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco Systems), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Michelle Coon (OATI), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (GoDaddy), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Renne Rodriguez (Apple), Ryan Dickson (Google), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services)

## Minutes

### 1. Read Antitrust Statement

Dean Coclin read the antitrust statement.

### 2. Roll Call

Doug Beattie read the roll.

### 3. Review Agenda

No changes were made to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of Minutes from Last Teleconference

The minutes from the 20-January call were approved without changes.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update

Corey Bonnell said that the subcommittee met last Thursday. The first agenda item was determining an agenda for the upcoming face-to-face meeting. The group settled on a single agenda item: the non-TLS ICA profile. Corey said that he expects the discussion of this topic to take the full 2 hour time slot.

Then Paul van Brouwershaven presented his research findings on unicode in Subject attributes that he had posted to the Validation list. Next steps were discussed, and further discussion is planned for the next meeting.

Finally, Corey said that Ryan Sleevi presented some minor updates that he has made to the certificate profiles. Corey encouraged everyone to review those changes.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update

Jos said that the subcommittee is transitioning to a working group. We’ll discuss the transition during this meeting, then the NetSec WG report will move to the Forum portion of the call.

Clint Wilson said that the ballot to formally adopt the NCSSRs is in its discussion period, with voting planned to start on Monday. The WG is running a doodle poll to determine if there is a better time to hold the meetings. Clint posted a link to the poll in the chat and asked members to vote for times that work for them. Clint also mentioned that David Kluge was elected as the vice-chair.

### 7. Ballot Status

#### Ballots in Discussion Period

## Ballot SC51: Reduce and Clarify Audit Log and Records Archival Retention Requirements

Clint said this ballot came out of the NetSec subcommittee but only changes the BRs, so it is moving ahead in the SCWG. Clint needs to update the pull request and publish a new version of the ballot for further discussion.

#### Ballots in Voting Period

_None_

#### Ballots in Review Period

[Ballot SC53: Sunset for SHA-1 OCSP Signing][1]

#### Draft Ballots Under Consideration

_None_

### 8. Any Other Business

Jos said that a draft agenda for the upcoming F2F meeting is posted to the wiki. There are significant changes to the schedule, with a focus on more planning and review and fewer updates, with the intention of making the most of the collaboration. We are planning to have an update from each WG in which the chairs review last year’s accomplishments and plans for the coming year.

Dean said that they are looking for a short presentation – a few slides – on this subject from each WG chair.

Tim Hollebeek said that he had been doing this for the Validation SC and offered to share his slides from prior meetings as an example.

Dean mentioned that not all Browsers are currently on the agenda to present root program updates. Please let Dean know if slots need to be added for any other root programs.

Jos asked everyone to provide any ideas and feedback to him prior to the next call for things they would like the SCWG to accomplish in the coming year.

### 9. Next call: February 17th, 2022 at 11AM Eastern

Adjourn; Immediately convene meeting of CA Browser Forum (same call)

[1]: /2022/01/26/ballot-sc53-sunset-for-sha-1-ocsp-signing/