---
aliases:
- /2022-03-17-2022-03-17-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Jos Purvis
date: 2022-03-17 19:54:00
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2022-03-17 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees 

Adam Jones (Microsoft), Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Amanda Mendieta (Apple), Andrea Holland (SecureTrust), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Brittany Randall (GoDaddy), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Kemmerer (SSL.com), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (Digicert), Dean Coclin (Digicert), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Ward (SSL.com), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Fumi Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Heather Warncke (Amazon), Hogeun Yoo (NAVER), Hubert Chao (Google), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Inigo Barreira (Sectigo), Joanna Fox (TrustCor Systems), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kati Davids (GoDaddy), Khairil Nizam Abdul Malek (MSC Trustgate Sdn Bhd), Kiran Tummala (Microsoft), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Michelle Coon (OATI), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rae Ann Gonzales (GoDaddy), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), Renne Rodriguez (Apple), Ryan Dickson (Google), Stephen Davidson (Digicert), Tim Hollebeek (Digicert), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Tyler Myers (GoDaddy), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yoshiro Yoneya (Japan Registry Services)

## Minutes 

### 1. Read Antitrust Statement 

Jos Purvis read the antitrust statement.

### 2. Roll Call 

Stephen read the roll.

### 3. Review Agenda 

No changes were made to the agenda.

### 4. Approval of Minutes from Last Teleconference 

The last meeting was at the March F2F, so there are no meeting minutes to approve.

Jos said that the minutes from the last face-to-face are ready for review except for one session, so please review them and we will approve this portion of the F2F meeting minutes during our next call.

### 5. Validation Subcommittee Update 

Corey provided a summary of the last call. It was a brief call where we discussed 2 topics

1) The Profile ballot work is currently being done in one person’s GitHub repo and we discussed if we should move this to allow edits to be made more freely.

2. We discussed changes to the EV Enterprise RA wording and also the “3-second” rule for CRL downloads. For those that want more information, please see the draft notes for this meeting send out by Doug.

### 6. NetSec Subcommittee Update 

Clint said there was not much to report and that the NetSec transition is about complete.

### 7. Ballot Status 

#### Ballots in Discussion Period 

None

#### Ballots in Voting Period 

- Ballot SC-54 v2: Onion Cleanup

#### Ballots in Review Period 

- Ballot SC51 – Reduce and Clarify Log and Records Archival Retention Requirements
- Ballot SC53 – Sunset for SHA-1 OCSP Signing
- Chris Kemmerer noted that there was renewed interest in the Debian weak key ballot at the F2F, so in the next couple of weeks he will be bringing that back as a new ballot.

### 8. Any Other Business 

None

### 9. Next call: March  31, 2022 at 11AM Eastern 

Adjourn; Immediately convene meeting of CA Browser Forum (same call)