---
aliases:
- /2023/09/29/2023-09-14-minutes-of-the-server-certificate-working-group/
author: Iñigo Barreira
date: 2023-09-29 07:54:19
tags:
- Minutes
- Server Certificates
title: 2023-09-14 Minutes of the Server Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

**Attendance**

Aaron Gable – (Let’s Encrypt), Aaron Poulsen – (Amazon), Abhishek Bhat – (eMudhra), Adam Jones – (Microsoft), Adrian Mueller – (SwissSign), Andrea Holland – (VikingCloud), Ben Wilson – (Mozilla), Bruce Morton – (Entrust), Chad Ehlers – (IdenTrust), Chris Clements – (Google), Clint Wilson – (Apple), Corey Bonnell – (DigiCert), Corey Rasmussen – (OATI), Daryn Wright – (GoDaddy), Dimitris Zacharopoulos – (HARICA), Doug Beattie – (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback – (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew – (D-TRUST), Fumi Yoneda – (Japan Registry Services), Hannah Sokol – (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi – (GlobalSign), Jos Purvis – (Fastly), Keshava Nagaraju – (eMudhra), Lynn Jeun – (Visa), Mads Henriksveen – (Buypass AS), Marcelo Silva – (Visa), Martijn Katerbarg – (Sectigo), Michelle Coon – (OATI), Mrugesh Chandarana – (IdenTrust), Nargis Mannan – (VikingCloud), Nate Smith – (GoDaddy), Nicol So – (CommScope), Paul van Brouwershaven – (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes – (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic – (Disig), Rebecca Kelley – (Apple), Rollin Yu – (TrustAsia Technologies, Inc.), Ryan Dickson – (Google), Scott Rea – (eMudhra), Stephen Davidson – (DigiCert), Tadahiko Ito – (SECOM Trust Systems), Thomas Zermeno – (SSL.com), Tobias Josefowitz – (Opera Software AS), Wayne Thayer – (Fastly), Yoshihiko Matsuo – (Japan Registry Services).

Dustin Hollenback led the meeting since Inigo and Kiran were unavailable.

Roll Call, Recording, and Reading of Note-well was not needed since it was done with the Forum call.

No changes to the agenda.

Approval of Minutes: 31 August minutes have not been distributed yet.

GitHub issues: Continue with the review of the open issues.

– Inigo has been driving this and has sent information out on this.

– 86 open: 6 more opened during August

– Clean-up: 17 open

– Pull requests: 12 open (3 labeled “clean-up”, #322, #415, and #447)

Pre-ballot SC65 – EV Guidelines conversion

– Inigo has been driving this

Email threads open

– Request for endorsers for the fall clean up ballot.

– Talked about how to best handle the question on the mailing list regarding the move to 90-day certificates. No proposal yet, just Google’s intention to move toward it. Ryan Dickson will be addressing this question and will provide a response to the management list for feedback.

F2F Topics

– Subscriber verses Applicant, should that be discussed at the SCWG level? May be best to start with a proposal before the F2F.

– GitHub item progress to either move towards a proposal or closure.

– Topics outside of the normal agenda sent to the management mailing list to put together a schedule of items to discuss.

Ballot Status

– Draft / Under Consideration

SCXX – SLO/Response for CRL & OCSP Responses: on hold

SCXX – Fall clean-up ballot

SCXX – Modify Subscriber and Terms of Use: Working on a draft for this one and there is already one update to it. Should we include the subscriber verses applicant discussion or keep it separate?

SCXX – Profiles clean-up ballot

SC65 – Convert EVGs into RFC3647 format

– If we look at the modify subscriber and terms of use changes along with the subscriber verses applicant discussion during the F2F then it may make sense to combine these changes into one ballot.

– At what point does the applicant become the subscriber? Maybe a straw poll at the F2F as to when this transition occurs. Does this happen at the time of accepting the subscriber agreement or when they get a certificate?

– Ben will work on a 20-minute presentation and discussion for the F2F.

Any Other Business

– No other business

Next call: 28 September

Meeting was adjourned