---
aliases:
- /2023-04-27-2023-04-27-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2023-04-27 22:40:02
tags:
- Forum
title: 2023-04-27 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

**Attendees**:

Aaron Gable – (Let’s Encrypt), Adam Jones – (Microsoft), Adrian Mueller – (SwissSign), Bruce Morton – (Entrust), Chad Ehlers – (IdenTrust), Chris Clements – (Google), Clint Wilson – (Apple), Daryn Wright – (GoDaddy), Dimitris Zacharopoulos – (HARICA), Doug Beattie – (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback – (Microsoft), Ellie Lu – (TrustAsia Technologies, Inc.), Fumi Yoneda – (Japan Registry Services), Hogeun Yoo – (NAVER Cloud), Inigo Barreira – (Sectigo), Jamie Mackey – (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Janet Hines – (VikingCloud), Joanna Fox – (TrustCor Systems), Jos Purvis – (Fastly), Karina Sirota – (Microsoft), Marco Schambach – (IdenTrust), Martijn Katerbarg – (Sectigo), Nargis Mannan – (VikingCloud), Nate Smith – (GoDaddy), Pedro Fuentes – (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic – (Disig), Rebecca Kelley – (Apple), Ryan Dickson – (Google), Sissel Hoel – (Buypass AS), Sooyoung Eo – (NAVER Cloud), Stephen Davidson – (DigiCert), Tadahiko Ito – (SECOM Trust Systems), Thomas Zermeno – (SSL.com), Tim Hollebeek – (DigiCert), Tobias Josefowitz – (Opera Software AS), Tsung-Min Kuo – (Chunghwa Telecom), Wendy Brown – (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yoshiro Yoneya – (Japan Registry Services).

**Topic: Code Signing Cert WG**

- Have ballot almost done
- Did not discuss
- Did not discuss removing ssl BRs
- Independent of forum IEFT is working on removing – it is in progress key attestation

**Topic: SMIME Cert WG**

- Going through proposed text and clarifications for an errata ballot
- In implementation CAs have expresses enterprise As are constrained to issue identity certificates only to email domains only under their control – that to issue to external they should be using mailbox validated.
- MAY 10th! – Presentation on open source Linter from Digicert including lints for SMIME baseline requirements

**Topic: Forum infra sub committee**

- Reviewed status on wiki migration
- Next is dev mail server to test upgrades and integrations with
- Next is Github updates

**Topic: Net Sec WG**

- Redline of Net Sec requirements, 3 topic areas need separated into ballots
- Sec requirements for Root Cas air gapped systems
- Intro paragraphs to explain each section and making sure the sections match the goal
- Desired Outcomes
- Working on ballot for incorporating CCM into NSRs
- Cloud Security Alliance – changes will impact everyone so will be worked widely due to impact.
- Question on timeline – Estimate is first ballot on Air gapped netsec in 6 weeks

**Topic: Bylaws changes**

- Github has several open issues tagged with bylaws tag.
- Ben Wilson addressed the Bylaws items.
- Added to Bylaws 2.5 branch for upcoming ballot
- Tim is working on election changes to get everything in in the next 2 weeks.

**Topic: Registration for F2F 59**

- Use the link and register for in person or online.
- Agenda – Paul is working to include everything out of the ordinary
- Question about in person attendee limits, noted the wiki info needs updated
- Question about hotel information available.