---
aliases:
- /2023/01/19/2023-01-19-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2023-01-19 18:04:55
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2023-01-19 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Meeting of the CA/Browser Forum

## January 19, 2023

**Attendance** reviewed by Paul Van Brouwershaven: Aaron Poulsen – Amazon Trust Services, Adam Jones – Microsoft, Andrea Holland – VikingCloud, Atsushi Inaba – GlobalSign, Bruce Morton – Entrust, Ben Wilson – Mozilla, Chris Clements – Google Chrome, Chris Kemmerer – SSL.com, Cassie L’Heureux – GoDaddy, Clint Wilson – Apple, Corey Bonnell – DigiCert, Corey Rasmussen – OATI, Daryn Wright – GoDaddy, Doug Beattie – GlobalSign, Dustin Hollenback – Microsoft, Dimitris Zacharopoulos – HARICA, Ellie Lu – TrustAsia, Enrico Entschew – D-TRUST/ Bundesdruckerei, Lynn Jeun – VISA, Iñigo Barreira – Sectigo, Janet Hines – VikingCloud, Joanna Fox – TrustCor, Jozef Nigut – Disig, Karina Sirota Goodley – Microsoft, Kiran Tummala – Microsoft, Martijn Katerbarg – Sectigo, Michelle Coon – OATI, Miguel Sanchez – Google, Marco Schambach – IdenTrust, Marcelo Silva – Visa, Nargis Mannan – VikingCloud, Paul van Brouwershaven – Entrust, Pedro Fuentes – OISTE, Rebecca Kelley – Apple, Rollin Yu – TrustAsia, Ryan Dickson – Google Chrome, Steven Deitte – GoDaddy, Steve Topletz – Cisco, Tadahiko Ito – SECOM, Tim Hollebeek – DigiCert, Tobias Josefowitz – Opera, Trevoli Ponds-White – Amazon Trust Services, Wayne Thayer – Fastly, Fumi Yoneda – JPRS, and Yoshiro Yoneya – JPRS

**Antitrust Statement** read by Paul van Brouwershaven.

**Review of Agenda:** There were no additions.

**Approval of Minutes** from Last Call of January 5, 2023: minutes were approved.

**Next minute-taker** – Bruce Morton (February 2, 2023)

**Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update** – Corey Bonnell said two main topics were discussed-wiki migration beginning in February and replacement of some GitHub tooling for generating PDF and Word documents that is being deprecated. Ben also mentioned that he had added minutes pages for working groups to the website.

**Code Signing Certificate Working Group update** – Janet Hines said the group worked on alternate language for the ballot on malware revocations that they would be discussing next week. Also, in section 7.1.4.2.3 there are references to the SSL/TLS Baseline Requirements that need to be removed.

**S/MIME Certificate Working Group update** – Martijn Katerbarg said that they were working to incorporate some requirements (not before the effective date, but sometime early in 2024). Mozilla’s potential adoption of the S/MIME BRs was also discussed.

**Network Security Working Group update** – Ben Wilson said that the cloud computing sub-group was reviewing the Cloud Security Alliance’s security controls matrix, and on the last NetSec WG call they developed some narrative guidance language to proceed each of the four major sections of the Network and Certificate System Security Requirements.

\*\*Any other business: \*\*None

**Next Meeting:** February 2, 2023

\*\*Upcoming face-to-face meetings: \*\*

\*\*\*\*\*\* Entrust is hosting in Ottawa, ON – February 28 – March 2, 2023 **(please make sure you register!)**;

June 6-8, 2023 – Redmond, WA – Microsoft; and

October 3-5, 2023 – Portsmouth, NH – GlobalSign

## Meeting adjourned.