---
aliases:
- /2023/12/07/2023-12-07-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2023-12-07 00:00:00
tags:
- Forum
- Minutes
title: 2023-12-07 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

## Meeting of the CA/Browser Forum

## December 7, 2023

### Forum Session Attendees 

Aaron Gable - (Let's Encrypt), Aaron Poulsen - (Amazon), Adam Jones - (Microsoft), Alison Wang - (TrustAsia), Andrea Holland - (VikingCloud), Ben Wilson - (Mozilla), Brianca Martin - (Amazon), Brittany Randall - (GoDaddy), Chris Clements - (Google), Corey Bonnell - (DigiCert), Dean Coclin - (DigiCert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos - (HARICA), Enrico Entschew - (D-TRUST), Inigo Barreira - (Sectigo), Kiran Tummala - (Microsoft), Lynn Jeun - (Visa), Mads Henriksveen - (Buypass AS), Marcelo Silva - (Visa), Marco Schambach - (IdenTrust), Martijn Katerbarg - (Sectigo), Michelle Coon - (OATI), Mrugesh Chandarana - (IdenTrust), Nargis Mannan - (VikingCloud), Nate Smith - (GoDaddy), Nicol So - (CommScope), Nome Huang - (TrustAsia), Paul van Brouwershaven - (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes - (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic - (Disig), Rebecca Kelley - (Apple), Rollin Yu - (TrustAsia), Scott Rea - (eMudhra), Stephen Davidson - (DigiCert), Steven Deitte - (GoDaddy), Tadahiko Ito - (SECOM Trust Systems), Tobias Josefowitz - (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White - (Amazon), Wayne Thayer - (Fastly), Yoshihiko Matsuo - (Japan Registry Services)

### Meeting Notes:

* Approved for minutes from October 26th teleconference

Working Group Updates:

### 1. SCWG update:

* Ballot SC-066: Fall 2023 Clean-up v2 approved.
* Update on Amended Server Certificate Working Group Charter.

### 2. Validation Subcommittee update:

#### Topic 1:

* Michael Slaughter presented improvements on BR, specifically DNS-based validation.
* Discussion focused on explicit requirements for delegation to a domain name controlled by the allowed, with added security measures.
* No objections to fundamental ideas; in the wordsmithing phase.

#### Topic 2:

* Global signing presented language improvements in EV guidelines.
* Next meeting to explore proposed approaches further.

#### Topic 3:

* Chris from Chrome team provided an update on the IPR situation with multi-perspective domain validation.
* Meeting on the 28th canceled.

### 3. Code Signing Working Group update:

* Mike Ounsworth presented on Key Attestation.
* Discussion on importing EV guideline references.
* Exploring sections to move within the code signing.

### 4. S/MIME update:

* New version SMC 04 BR Ballot for CAs audited under ETSI standard.
* Draft CAA for S/MIME with ballot text; intending to move to ballot early next year.
* Discussion on sponsor legacy profile.

### 5. Infrastructure Subcommittee update:

* Demo of election system "Zeus" for surveys.
* Open-source project; positive feedback from trial survey.

### 6. NetSec update:

* No update; meeting canceled.

### 7. Code Signing Charter Update:

* Code Signing charter version 2 update to be sent out.

### 8.Separation of forum and the service security group:

* Survey for the separation through weekly teleconferences.
* Involves voting members and associate member representatives.
* Martin and Dimitris identified as trustees.
* Emails to be sent to all member representatives, with the expectation of one response as the final one received.

### 9. Next Face-to-Face Meeting in New Delhi:

* 24 people registered for the face-to-face meeting.
* 2 people plan to attend remotely.
* Visa challenges for those traveling from Canada resolved.
* Participants urged to add their names on meeting 61 page on the wiki.
