---
aliases:
- /2023-09-28-2023-09-28-minutes-of-the-ca-browser-forum-teleconference/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2023-09-28 01:04:34
tags:
- Minutes
- Forum
title: 2023-09-28 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
type: post
---

**Attendance**

Aaron Gable (Let’s Encrypt), Aaron Poulsen (Amazon), Abhishek Bhat (eMudhra), Adam Clark (Visa), Adam Jones (Microsoft), Adrian Mueller (SwissSign), Andrea Holland (VikingCloud), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bilal Ashraf (SSL.com), Brianca Martin (Amazon), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (DigiCert), Corey Rasmussen (OATI), Daryn Wright (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (DigiCert), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Fumi Yoneda (Japan Registry Services), Hannah Sokol (Microsoft), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Iñigo Barreira (Sectigo), Jos Purvis (Fastly), Jozef Nigut (Disig), Keshava Nagaraju (eMudhra), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Lynn Jeun (Visa), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Michelle Coon (OATI), Nargis Mannan (VikingCloud), Nate Smith (GoDaddy), Nicol So (CommScope), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Rebecca Kelley (Apple), RIch Smith (DigiCert), Roman Fischer (SwissSign), Scott Rea (eMudhra), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yoshihiko Matsuo (Japan Registry Services)

**Minutes**

**Note-well: **Paul read the note-well.

**Agenda:** There were no changes to the agenda.

**Approval of minutes**:

- Minutes from the August 31 Teleconference were not distributed yet.
- Minutes from the September 14th meeting are approved.

**SCWG **– Iñigo Barreira & Corey Bonnell

- Iñigo is still looking for endorsers for the EVG conversion to the RFC3647 format.
- F2F topics and items have been discussed and defined for both the SCWG and validation subcommittee.

**CSCWG **– Bruce Morton

- F2F agenda has been discussed last week.
- Other than that, just a short meeting was held going over actual ballot status.

**Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee** – Jos Purvis

- Brief meeting last week.
- WordPress was reviewed for a vulnerability in a well-known plugin. We did not have this plugin in use.
- We’re looking to create a markdown cheat sheet and examples page setup to have a standardized way within CA/BF.

**NetSec WG **– Clint Wilson

- A short meeting was held preparing for the F2F meeting of next week.

**SCWG Charter Update **– Ben Wilson

- Ben is looking for more input, and is wondering if a Certificate Consumer should be asked to maintain a list, or could state they use an external list.
- Dimitris added that using an external list should be fine, but consumers should state how they can still add a different CA to that list.
- This will be further discussed during the SCWG call at the F2F

**Draft Agenda for F2F 60**

- No further changes are requested. The F2F agenda is accepted

**Any Other Business**

- No other business.

**N****ext Meeting **– F2F 60

**Adjourned**