---
aliases:
- /2023/06/29/2023-06-29-minutes-of-the-code-signing-certificate-working-group/
author: Corey Bonnell
date: 2023-06-29 16:00:22
tags:
- Minutes
- Code Signing
title: 2023-06-29 Minutes of the Code Signing Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

# Attendees

Andrea Holland (VikingCloud), Atsushi INABA (GlobalSign), Ben Dewberry (Keyfactor), Bhat Abhishek (eMudhra), Brianca Martin (Amazon), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Corey Bonnell (DigiCert), Dean Coclin (DigiCert), Janet Hines (VikingCloud), Keshava N (eMudhra), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Mohit Kumar (GlobalSign), Roberto Quiñones (Intel), Scott Rea (eMudhra), Tim Crawford (BDO/WebTrust), Tim Hollebeek (DigiCert)

# Minutes

\*\*Antitrust statement: \*\*The Antitrust statement was read.

**Approval of minutes**: Previous F2F meeting’s minutes still being compiled

- Ballot: CSC 18 has passed and IPR review period is over

- - No claims received

- Look into rebasing the last two Ballots into Dimitri’s branch

- - Now that the IPR period is over that can be done

- Signing service Ballot

- - Most of the text is written but could now be out of Sync with updates coming in from Dimitri’s ballot
    - Need to recut the ballot after going through the previous ballot

- High risk language change proposal (Bruce, Tim, and Ian)

- - Work on getting (High risk language, time stamping change, EB certificates, certificate transparency) discussion in a prioritized order
    - All items that have been talked about but nobody is working on a specific one
    - High risk can be done now, other two waiting on more fleshed out text
    - Certificate Transparency

- - - Presentation on Certificate Transparency Coming up at an upcoming code signing meeting

- - Time Stamping change

- - - Setting a requirement for time stamping, also impacts non code signing items

* Time stamping authorities for code signing intermixed with time stamping authorities for other things and causes a number of problems but no need for it to necessarily continue
* Potential next steps

- - - - Designate which timestamp servers are meant to be a codesigning according to the CAB forum code signing requirements

- - Prioritization discussions to come when Ian joins next

- Next Call: July 13th

- Adjourn